[Auto-generated transcript. Edits may have been applied for clarity.] Good afternoon. I hope everybody is doing well. Bruin loonies online again. Yay! I hope you've all been not too inconvenienced by the outage. Okay. Okay, I think. I think this is where the, um. Laptop died last time. Okay, let me stop the recording. Okay. Okay. So if you remember last lecture I asked you, are there any infeasible paths? I think. Um. This was the. Oh, no. It's actually a different. It's a different example. Okay. This is slightly different example. Um, yeah. So if we want to um. Answer the question are there any infeasible paths? What are the steps we need to go through? Who remembers what approach we take to identify infeasible paths? Let's do a little bit of space practice. What are the steps we go through? That's been a yes. At. Symbolic execution. How does this work? Oops, sorry. So for each red, you have the conditional. Mhm. Exactly. I think that's the. Exactly. So for each of the branches, we write down the path conditions, and then we write down the conjunction of all of the effects of the previous statements. Um, and uh, in the end, we're going to have a, um, combination of all of them. And then we look at, uh, logical contradictions, uh, amongst our paths. So for this program, we then basically have our symbolic execution result for, um, all of the paths. And then we see that if x is greater than three. Uh, yeah. So this, this cannot be, uh, true at the same time, because this quadratic formula does not have any solutions for x greater than three. But, um, yeah, the uh, opposite does have uh, so this one is feasible. And then we can find examples. So for this resulting uh formulas, we can then automatically generate examples that solve them using Smt solvers. Um, that uh yeah, I guess work on human intelligence. It also works. But the automatic way would be using Smt told us, um, and uh, yeah, we basically do this for all of the paths and for each of the paths. We then have this combination of the path conditions and the effects. Um, and then we, uh, I tried to identify some, um, logical contradictions. Okay. You feel ready to do something like this and like a and a homework or a exam or something like this? I think you'll probably have some question like this, um, that you may have to perform on the final exam, uh, because we want to have a few, at least one, at least one kind of formal verification topic on a software engineering class. I think, uh, it's not necessarily a bad thing. Okay. Questions about symbolic execution. Okay. Um, yeah. So the reason why we do this, and I think that was one of the questions in the very end, is that we can automatically generate test inputs. So the problem is how can we automatically generate test inputs to create 100% path coverage. So we want 100% path coverage, but we don't want to use our human intelligence to do this. That would be, you know, like so much effort. You know, who wants to do this? We want to do this automatically. And the solution is that we use a symbolic execution framework for the programing language we are using. Um, and then we use an Smt solver to find concrete input assignments for each of the paths. Um, and uh, yeah. For example, if we have, um, this really, really simple program with x greater than one, um, then x us uh, assigned x minus two and otherwise x is set to two x. And then we have a third statement. And then we have the effect for statement one is the path condition and the effect. And so this um symbolic execution result is the path condition on the effect. And then the overall execution result is the combination of these uh with an or because we either take this path or we take the other path. And then, uh, we can identify from this that x equals two exercises. Statement one x equals one exercises statement two. And then statement three is exercised by either of those. Um, because we just look at the logical constraints and we just find examples that satisfy them. Right. Um I hope that should be, um, straightforward. Um, um. Do you want to go through another? Who wants to go through another example in the lecture? Um. 11234. Okay, let's do it. Um, let's draw the control flow graph for this program. Um, and then we're going to use symbolic execution to model each path in terms of logical constraints. And then we'll try to find concrete input assignments to increase to create 100% path coverage. For this I think I'm going to give you two minutes for this. Okay. First question. How many paths do we have? Show me your fingers. How many paths? Okay, we have one vote. Show me your fingers for how many paths we have. Just one student. Got the number of paths? Two. Three. Four. Five. Six. Okay. Yes. And you're all right? Yes. Of course. It's four different paths. It is four different paths. How does our control flow graph look like? Who wants to describe the control flow graph? How it looks like. Yes. Um. Mhm. I identical dynamic. Yep. Exactly. Okay. Oh, okay. Almost. Almost. Uh, yes. So this is how our control flow graph looks like. So we have our first decision point with, um, x smaller than y. Uh, if this is true, we do this. Okay, this makes sense. And then we join, uh, this together, and then we have another decision. Um, where? Yeah. Both of the paths lead to the same decision. Uh, so we have one path here with two paths here, and then we have for both of them, we have two additional, uh, decisions here, which means we have a two times two, which is four. Um, and then how do our path conditions look like? What path conditions do we have for each of the paths? If you don't want to, you know, just give the expression. You can also just kind of describe it from the graph. Yes. Right? Yeah, this was the big one. So we kind of combined the two. Oh. Oh okay. And the troop ranch, uh, ofhere, uh, with, uh, true branch of here. And then we have, uh, the negation of this and the tree branch here, the tree branch here, and the negation of this, the negation of this and the negation of this. So we have these, uh, path conditions, and then we run our symbolic execution for these, uh, path conditions. Um, and we, we get our test inputs. Um, so, yeah, our test. And because the, um. Z is incremented and decremented here. Uh, our path condition for the second condition is depending on the path we've taken. So here we have, uh, Z plus one, uh, is less than this. Here we have. Is that minus one? So we have two. Uh, in our path condition, we have to replace this z with z plus one or z plus z minus one. Right. This is really important. We have changed z depending on the path we've taken. Uh, we have changed Z. We have not we do not have, uh, the initial Z. So this that is not the Z from start. This is the Z after the execution of this if statement. So if x is less than y then we have incremented z z by one is uh. The opposite is the case. If x is greater or equal than y then we decrement it. Um so this is these are then our path conditions at the end of the program. And then we just have to, you know, find concrete values, uh, for these equations. Uh, I hope you have taken enough math classes to be able, um, to find values, uh, for this. But yeah, the main insight here is basically if you have a condition after, um, some kind of assignment with a variable that was changed previously, as used in the condition, you have to update it in your path condition, because the path condition, uh, is, um, incorporating the effects of previous statements. Okay. Questions about this. Okay. I want to go through another example or move on to a new topic. Let's do another example. Okay one. Two. Okay. You'll do this in office hours with me tomorrow. Uh. We'll, um. Oh, this is a loop unrolling. Yeah. Or you can look at it in the slides. Okay. Because today we are now talking about a really exciting topic. Um, the process of software development. Um, and I think. And now that we are in a world in which, uh, implementing code is something that can increasingly be done by AI, I think the skills related to, um, not pure coding will become more important. So graduates who have great skills at making decisions between which software engineering process to use and, um, kind of higher level skills, I believe will have an advantage over graduates who, um, have only learned how to write code. Um, so I think these are skills and this lecture that, um, I believe will kind of set you apart from graduates, uh, who have not, uh, studied these topics. Um, I'm not sure when they will show up in, uh, in, in interviews, but I think, yeah, past interview stage will definitely set you apart. Um. In the past, the process has looked like this. So we've started the requirements engineering. We've finished requirements engineering only after finishing requirements engineering. We've done design and that after we've design finished design, we implement the entire system. And then after we've implemented the entire system, only then we start testing it. And only after we've finished all of the testing. Then we start deployment. So this is called the waterfall model because it kind of looks like a waterfall. Um, but um, yeah, it's very plan driven. What challenges arise from that traditional waterfall process in real world software engineering? Talk to a neighbor. Okay. Any thoughts? Yes. Requirements change right while you are implementing it. Requirements might change. And reason and reasons for requirements changes may include um that the environment may be changing. Right. So we we needed to support um a small number of customers, but suddenly we have a large number of customers. So we now have scalability requirements. Uh, it could also be that the user just didn't really know what they want until they've seen it. So, um, software is quite complex and making up your mind of what you actually need before you see some kind of prototype sometimes is quite hard. So, yeah, requirements change quite often. And, you know, if they change while you're in the testing stage, you know that it's just a lot of, um, effort gone into creating zero value. Yes. It's also. It is slow because you can't like paralyze. Once you get stopped breaking the requirements that you can then use for the design. I think it is. It is slow. If you have people in your organization that are specialized for for one of the activities because they cannot start working. Um. And yet that's probably also a little bit of waste going on. So we we'll look at the waste later. Yeah I would say slowest probably. It's probably also true. Uh, it's probably also true. But there are also some cases. Well we'll look at this when we discuss scrum. So there are a lot of activities of alternative processes that actually I would say actually much slower than a waterfall process. So it depends on the it depends on the situation. I would say other reasons. Yes, I've learned things. You might learn something. Yeah. So only doing deployment, you'll realize that your system is too slow, or that it consumes too much memory, or that it just doesn't really work on the platform, or that the platform has changed. Um, yeah. So you'll you'll you'll learn something in the later stage. Um, yeah. You'll also not really find bugs, uh, very early. So the earlier you find bugs, the cheaper they are to fix. If you only do testing after you've implemented the entire system. Maybe the developer who wrote the code may actually have already left the company. Um, or if the developer hasn't left the company, they will just not remember why they've implemented it the way that they did. Um, or the design, uh, already included a bug, or the requirements were, uh, not, uh, implemented or understood the right way. So, uh, yeah. So you want to you want to find bugs as early as possible and you want to, um, yeah. Uh, identify requirements changes. So requirements might change during development. And the customer feedback is considered very, very late in the process, basically only at the very end. And uh, they are they're often delayed because um. Yeah, you might not have anticipated something and you've not actually created any value for your customer. So, um, when you have a, uh, when you are a business and you want to make money, you can only make money after you've and employed something, but maybe already a half baked solution is sufficient. I saw a quote yesterday. I don't actually know who said it. Um, but somebody said, if you're not embarrassed by the first version of your product, you have a released too late, which is kind of advice for people who are in the startup scene. Um, and yeah, with the waterfall process, that certainly, uh, yeah, it doesn't really work. So an alternative to this waterfall process that people have come up with. Um, so around the year 2000, uh, a lot of people were starting to get very, very upset with this waterfall process that was practiced by basically all of the big companies. Um, and there was a group of, uh, software engineering gurus, um, that, um, really, really upset with all of these challenges. So they decided to come together and like a ski resort somewhere. Um, um, someone in the southwest, I think, um, and, uh, they discussed all of their, uh, unhappiness, and they realized that they actually disagreed on most of the solutions. So all of them were thinking of a completely different solution. So they were also then unhappy that they all disagreed with each other. So what they then did was that they started to, uh, write down things on the whiteboard that they all agreed on. So they tried to find the least common denominator between all of, uh, all of them. And then they came up with this document that is now called the Agile Manifesto. It wasn't really intended to be a manifesto. Um, but it was, uh, basically just, uh, intended to be a personal statement. And it reads, uh, we are uncovering better ways of developing software by doing it and helping others do it. This work, we have come to value interactions and individuals and interactions over processes and tools, working software over comprehensive documentation, customer collaboration over contract negotiation, responding to change over following a plan that is wilder is a value in the items on the right. We value the items on the left more. A lot of people took these for statements to be 100% literal. Um, and a lot of people were interpreting this as the only way to build software the right way is by not having any processes and tools, not having any documentation, not negotiating any contracts, and not having a plan at all. Um, that's not what, um, the group of people who wrote the Agile Manifesto were intending to say. They were saying that. The items on the left are more important than the items on the right. So a process that focuses more on the items on the right, then on the items on the left is not an agile process. Um, and it's really important to understand this nuance because, um, they really mean that there is value in the items on the right. Of course, documentation is helpful for anybody who wants to onboard a new, uh, a project or, um. It is important to understand design decisions that were made in the past. Having a plan allows you to, um, allows you to anticipate change. Um, negotiating a contract is important so that you have some kind of legal basis on which you can, um, execute your contract. And having processes and tools to tell you what to do helps you to have a common vocabulary. But it's much more important to focus on, uh, what the people who are working on these projects actually need. Because people who are developing software, uh, have a lot of a flaws. They have a lot of needs. They have a lot of they have limited cognition, um, and a process that does not anticipate this cannot be working for people. Um, it's also much more important to have software that works then, uh, to have a documentation of what the software should do, because the only working software is making money. And in the real world, we have to make money. If you can't make money, then we all a software company is just going bankrupt. Um, and asking our customer what they actually want, frequently showing them, uh, what we currently have is more important than sticking to the contract we've negotiated three years ago, because in the end, a customer that gets what was promised to them three years ago is not going to be as happy as a customer who gets what they actually need. Right? It's more important to get what they need than what they have negotiated in the past. So these are the insights behind the Agile Manifesto. And this has created a variety of different software engineering processes that are all um, um combined in the overarching theme of agile processes. Who has heard of agile processes before? Uh, almost all software. And it's not exactly all software is now, uh, trying to follow some kind of agile process. Um, and the principles that underlie these agile processes are that, uh, the highest of apparently is to satisfy customers through early and continuous delivery. We welcome changing requirements even late in the development, and our process should harness change for the customer's competitive advantage. We want to deliver frequently, uh, working software, uh, from a couple of weeks to a couple of months. And business people and developers must work together daily through project um and working software as a primary means of progress. Continuous attention to technical detail and good design enhances agility. This is the principle of agile development that most people completely ignored. Uh, so after the creation of the manifesto, a lot of companies are moving into the exact opposite direction. They were saying, so we should not have a plan. We should not think about design in any way. That's what the these gurus told us, right? They told us that we should just, uh, respond to change and we should not make a plan at all. Um, but then that then led to basically the exact opposite to the big ball of mud that we've seen in the, uh, information hiding system lecture. Information and principle lecture. Simplicity. This is really important. This is a very key idea behind all agile processes. So implicitly, the art of maximizing the amount of work not done is essential. Uh, so you want to figure out what is the piece of work you can not done, not make done, uh, and then, uh, prioritize those. So it's, um, not saying that you should do any work. Right. It's just saying that you have to figure out what is the work that is not actually creating any value and then, um, reducing that, uh, specific goal. And we will talk about this later as well. Uh, the best architectures and requirements and designs emerge from self-organizing teams, teams that have control over their internal workings. Um, a central piece of agile development because, uh, in software development, people have different experiences, different expertise, and identifying that different people for different needs have different processes that should follow is very important in agile development, are not there's not one company process that every team should follow. No teams should be able to make decisions about their own process very individually. And it's actually quite interesting that different companies, um, and Faang, actually do this very differently. So for example, at Google, uh, they are much more self-organized teams than at Apple. At Apple, people try to follow a kind of company and post process while at Google. Uh, they are a little bit more agile. Uh, this is partially due to the fact that Apple is more hardware dependent, uh, and it has more across product teams that need to collaborate with each other. So there are different needs and different companies. If you're very close to hardware, you can't always be as agile because then you are, uh, you need to co-design with a, um, with the computer architects, um, who, uh, you might have taken some classes with and who you want. Then my may see again, um, if you're working at a company that has a very strong, um, embedded system architecture. Um, okay. But yeah, so they worked on these principles, and most people just kind of looked at the front page of the manifesto. The website is actually still up, and it hasn't been changed since 2001, I think, which is kind of funny. That's one of probably all the websites that are still around and very frequently used. Um, many people kind of ignore these principles, but I think the principles here are actually what agile is about. The main manifesto is just kind of maybe a little bit, um, important. Um, so what implications do you think does this have on your own approach to, um, building software, uh, in your current project teams or, and, uh, in the real world, talk about this with your neighbor. I'm gonna give you 30s for this. Um, I will discuss. In Utah. They came together in Utah? Yes, and a mountain resort in Utah. Okay. Any insights? I think this is the most important, most interesting part of the lecture. And you kind of think about what, uh, these ideas and principles and manifestos actually mean for your for your own approach to software engineering. Angela. Exactly. Yeah. So you want to, uh, you want to split your work into smaller chunks? Um, so that at the end of every increment, you have some working. Um. Uh, at the end of every order called sprint or iteration. We have, um, some working increment that we can deploy to our customer. Any other insights? Or maybe some kind of critique of the manifesto. And then you feel like maybe there is some aspect of this that just doesn't really apply to everyone. Yes. Like all the requirements. Right? Yeah. So if you let's say you develop some kind of spacecraft system, uh, you can't really deploy, um, software incrementally because you don't really have, like a launch every two weeks. You have a launch maybe like once a year. Uh, so yeah, this doesn't necessarily work for all kinds of systems. Very safety critical systems, uh, are often hard to implement with, um, you know, not following a plan. Like if you have some kind of embedded system that needs to integrate with a medical device, for example, it's just really hard to, uh, not follow a plan. Also, uh, you have to identify that the people who wrote this. They all had decades of work experience. They were incredibly, highly skilled people, um, who, um, have developed a very strong, um, uh, body of implicit knowledge. So in the design doc lecture, we identified that expert experts developed this implicit knowledge that allows them to not go through a rational design decision making process. And this works for. So this kind of manifesto, that kind of works for people who are who are very experienced, who don't necessarily need to think about a plan because they just implicitly have a plan in their, um, in their mind. Um, but if you are a junior engineer, maybe you want to pay a little bit more attention to, um, the plan you're making, because otherwise you can't really learn. So, yeah, some, some of the ideas in, um, in AI processes are harder to implement by junior developers than by, by senior developers, because they assume that everybody on the team has a lot of experience and knows what they're doing. And when you are joining the real world software engineering, um, um, then you may not necessarily have developed this expertise yet. Um. Okay. Any other insights? Okay, and we all move on. Okay. I guess you kind of talked about this already. So the challenge is that we we want to get continuous feedback from customers to identify missing and misunderstood requirements. And then Angela said we should have a sprint or multiple iterations in which we have some kind of timebox period. Usually that's between 1 and 4 weeks, um, where you have a specific set of work that you want to get done. We usually call this the feature backlog or the sprint backlog, um, that we want to complete within this iteration. And then after that iteration, we review it, we make sure that it actually implements the requirements. We show it to a real customer or somebody who is a product owner who understands what the customer really needs. Um, and then we iterate based on this feedback. Yeah. So this is a really core principle of most natural processes, except for lean, um, or Kanban. There are many agile processes that implement these ideas, by far the most popular one. I think around 70% of all teams that say they are agile implement scrum, uh, based on a. So I think it was around 70% maybe, maybe actually a little bit more. Um, but there's also extreme programing and there's lean development. And you can also mix and match different ideas of your process. Um, so we'll talk about scrum in a lot of detail. That's going to be a lecture. Um. In 1 or 2 weeks. Specifically, just a full lecture on scrum. And this lecture, we're going to go through the key ideas of extreme programing and lean development. Then also a couple of others just like Crystal and um. A lot of people make a lot of money by having certifications and training programs on all of these specific processes, which is kind of funny, because the whole idea of agile is that, you know, individuals and interactions are the processes and tools, um, that I feel like it's kind of ironic, uh, but, you know, it's it's, uh, a business model. So, uh, yeah, here you kind of learn the principles and the ideas so that you can then, uh, identify which elements you should pick and which process you should follow. Extreme programing was one of the earliest and I think most pure implementations of agile principles because it does not actually define a process. Um, so actually development was um, proposed by Kent Beck, who remembers what Kent Beck was also known for? Um, I mean, you might have actually skipped this a little bit. So Kent Pack was also developer of JUnit because he also proposed test driven development. Um, so the goal of extreme Programing is to develop outstanding software, uh, following an outstanding software development process that can Beck uh, has developed by, um, his own experience. So he has identified elements that lead to better software development processes. And then he wrote Extreme Programing as a, uh, recommendation of basically doing the most extreme form of these things that he believes, um, are good. Um, this is why it's called extreme programing, because it's the most extreme form of the programing development activities that he believes, um, uh, the purest and most, uh, effective forms of this. The goal of extreme programing is to maximize the business value added with every single, um, development activity, to embrace change and to minimize risk. So extreme programing works really, really well if you're working in a very uncertain environment. If you're working in an environment where you don't really, um, you can't anticipate everything that will happen in the future. Uh, it's, uh, supposed to increase software quality. That's always good. Um, and responding to changes, uh, like a change in customer, uh, requirements. And there are a few XP practices. That uh, also, most of them, uh, also practice just in general in most, um, development, um, teams, even if they don't consider themselves to specifically follow extreme programing because, um, you know, it turns out that Ken was right. Most of them are generally, uh, good principles that everybody should follow. So even if you are not specifically following an extreme programing process, picking and choosing some of these principles for your own process, uh, actually makes a lot of sense. And I believe that specifically for the, um, team project that you have on this, uh, capstone project, most of these actually make a lot of sense because they're specifically designed for small teams. Yes. We're going to cover all of them. Um, the planning game. Maybe. Maybe that's the one that makes the least amount of sense in your project. But all of the others, I think I should. Okay, let's start with small releases. The point of small releases is, uh, that's basically saying we should have some iterations. So we should release as often as possible with any kind of increment that delivers value to our customer. So we want to maximize the customer value at every single point in time. The only way how we can do this is by making sure that we release every single value that we've added, and we make sure that we always just, uh, deliver the features that add the most amount of business value. Yes. Daniel. Yes. I think when Ken Beck says he wants to minimize risk, what he is talking about is dealing with the uncertainty of, um, not knowing whether things will work, not knowing what you actually need and not knowing, um, not knowing which approach is the right one to pick. And the way to do this is basically by, you know, collecting as much feedback as possible and by, um, um, minimizing, um, the amount of, let's say, planning and documentation to just what's needed to, uh, to deliver value. Um, and, um, I guess you also do kind of try to anticipate again, the planning game is, uh, is designed to anticipate, to reduce the risk of being late, uh, so that some aspects of risk that, uh, designed to minimize. But you're right that it's not all kinds of risk. So, for example, the risk that you will get sued by, um, uh, somebody that's not something that XP is designed to minimize or the risk that, um, your software has bugs. That's not something that XP is designed to minimize. So there are some risks that XP tries to minimize, but not all of them. That's true. Um. Uh, yeah. So we want to validate the assumptions by integrating our system in the real world and seeing how it works whenever this is possible. Um, and yeah, so the solution is basically to release often early with small increments. Um, we don't want to wait for months or years to devalue to deliver a finished product. We want to release working software in short cycles. That's the whole goal. And, um. When I was an undergrad in a in a class like this, um, all of the teams had to pick 1 or 2 practices, and then we had to follow, um, and to kind of see how they work for our projects. And, uh, our team, uh, picked small releases. And, um, I think the, uh, the main advantage that you can see from small releases is that you you think about, uh, what is the minimum amount of work you can done to then add new value to your customers? Um, and I think you can actually practice those quite well in your, um, in your capstone projects, even though you don't actually have a real customer. Uh, but yeah, we did mention that you get bonus points if you receive feedback from a non developer on your projects projects. So if you, um, you know, want to get these bonus points, you want to think about what is the, the smallest release you can do let's say next week. And who would be a person who might be able to give you feedback, who is not one of you? Um, and yeah, I think this this one can actually be integrated really, really well into your team projects. And it's also, uh, helping you keeping on track with all of the features you have planned, because then you see how delayed you are in your process, and you make sure that you are not, um, overworking yourself in the last week. The planning game. The goal of the planning game is to align business needs of technical capabilities. So your customer wants a feature. Um, and you want to be able to communicate to the customer how long it will take to implement this feature. The customer has no idea. The customer doesn't know if there is a super simple solution that already exists out there that you just have to reuse, or whether it will take you, uh, half a year to do a research project to figure out whether it's even doable or not. Um, and the only way how you can bridge this gap is by having developers, uh, estimate how long they believe it will take to, um, implement this and then, uh, uh, forward these estimations to your customer. And the way how this is implemented in XP is by having all developers in the team, uh, come together and then play what we call planning poker. Uh, and this works like this. So all of your teammates on a table, and then they get, um, kind of poker cards and not actual real poker cards. They are, uh, cards. Uh, they include the Fibonacci numbers. Uh, so they're not just on numbers, they're just Fibonacci numbers. Um, and then, uh, we define what is a one? What is a five? What is a 13? So we have, let's say one user story. Um, they, we all agree on is a five. And then we use this as a reference. And then, uh, everybody is silently estimating what they believe the effort of this user story is. Uh, and then, you know, they put the, the cards on the table a face down. And then when everybody has made up their mind, then you reveal what estimation you have come up with. And then, um, the, um, person with the smallest number and the largest number, they have a debate. They're like, okay, I actually know this library that implements exactly this feature, and this is why I think it's, uh, it's, uh, two. And then the other person is like, but you've misunderstood the requirement. There's actually the need to solve this really hard problem. This is why it's a 13. Um, and then, uh, you estimate again, based on the, uh, insights you have received from your teammates until you kind of reach a consensus. Um, and the, um, the objective here is basically to share your experience and to, um, make sure that everybody is on the same page on what are the edge cases, what are their capabilities? And, um, if somebody knows a library that already implements this and, you know, that is really, really important insight in estimating this. Um, what a lot of people misunderstand said the planning game is not about, uh, coming up with a, let's say, number of hours that you should spend on implementing this. Um, so these are imaginary units, um, that, um, you know, sometimes they, we call them, like, t shirt sizes or we call them, um, um, you know. Bruin numbers or whatever. Uh, so these are imaginary numbers. They're not directly correlating to work hours because, uh, you know, different developers, um, have different kind of development speeds. We call them most productive ones, the ten x developers for a reason, right? Um, so if we all agree on what is, um, what is a five, what is a 13, then it's easier for us to estimate this and to come to a consensus. Then if the developer is like, oh, I can do it in an hour, and then somebody else is like, oh, I would take me a week. Um, so then it's easier to come to a consensus. This is why these imaginary numbers are generally good. And then when communicating them to the customer, then you generally you have like a, you have like a average idea of how long like a 13 takes in a, in an amount of time that, you know, makes sense to the customer. But the estimation itself is not actually, uh, based on time. Um. Okay. Does it make sense? Any questions on the planning game? Yeah. So you basically do this? Um. Yeah. Usually you do this on the side of user stories. Um, okay. That's I think the next slide is actually talking about this specifically. Okay. How does invest or you have a question. Well, the minimum is one. Uh. The maximum. Uh, I think I think usually we define like a question mark or something like this is is way too big to estimate. Um, yeah. Um, but, I mean, the team picks the range. There's no textbook that says the maximum has to be 13 or, uh, or whatever the next, uh, Fibonacci number is. Um, yeah. You just have to kind of agree on what is the range that you can estimate. Um. Yeah. And it. Mhm. Yes, exactly. Yeah. So the the goal is to share your experience and your insights so that um, but it's a yeah, it's also important to come up with some kind of estimate that you can then, um, uh, use to estimate how much you can get done in the next increment. Right. If your sprint is four weeks, the goal of the planning game is to say these are the number of user stories that we can actually get implemented in four weeks. So to know how much we can get done in four weeks, we usually have what we call the team's velocity. So the velocity is the um, sum of all, um, um, numbers, uh, that we can fit into a sprint, uh, or into an increment. Um, and then, um, because these are imaginary numbers, maybe one team will have a velocity of 100, and another team will have a velocity of 200. But that doesn't necessarily mean that team two with a higher velocity is implementing faster, right? They may have slightly different definitions of what a one is. What a for what a five is, what a 13 is. Um, so this this is quite important that these velocities are not indicative of, uh, the team's performance. This is just what they believe they can get done in, in one increment. So they can then use this to, uh, tell their customers, okay, this, this got into this increment. This may take longer than one increment. So we didn't get it into this increment. Um, yeah. So the yeah the goal is kind of mixed, but it's certainly not the goal to to say this takes exactly five hours. It's more about, uh, figuring out what we can get done in the next increment. Um, and sharing these insights on how easy and hard it is to implement so that we are aware of all of the challenges that other team members have identified, and we are aware of all of the shortcuts that other team members have identified. So these are kind of the two main goals. Okay, but you've all become absolute experts at invest. Um, we haven't finished grading the midterm yet. Uh, but I hope everybody got all of the points in the invest question. Uh, if if not now, you will have an opportunity to fix this in the final. Uh, but how does invest following the invest principle is actually incredibly useful when you, um, want to estimate these user stories in, um, um, an editor process. Talk to your neighbor how each of the invest principles, uh, may support or may not support, um, planning in an agile process. Okay. 30s. Well, I said it. Say two minutes. Let's say one minute, let's say one minute and I give you 30s twice. It's just not that. Also like. Okay, let's start with the first one. What does I stand for and how does it help? It does not help us in planning off agile processes. Yes, I think so. But let me know if we disagree on another. Yes, the one that is dependent on another would have to come later in the schedule. Exactly. So we can really pick a user story for another another sprint if it depends on another. Do you have another answer? Same one. Okay. Uh, yes. Okay. Uh, one. Uh, there's another reason why independent supports our, uh, agile process, which is that, um, we can't really estimate user stories if they are dependent on each other. And we also can't schedule them individually. Right. So we may want to schedule one user story before the other because it's bigger or smaller and it might not fit inside of our, um, uh, may not fit inside of our initial, um, uh, sprint, but it may fit in the next sprint. Right. So you want to, um, um, yeah. Make sure that they all fit, uh, in a schedule so independent allows you to schedule them individually and also estimate individually. Okay. How about negotiable? Does negotiable help or, uh, if if yes how? Yes, it was one of. Being negotiable allows. Helps the team. Mhm. That is actually true. So this is kind of like a uh, a benefit of the um, um, uh, the sharing experience, um, ideas. Yes. Uh, yeah. Like invites. Invites like the, the necessitates having it. Because if you only if it's non-negotiable, you have. Why would you be talking? Right. Right. Exactly. Exactly. If you're if your teams don't have agency and they cannot be self-organized, they can't make these decisions themselves. Then why even have an agile team? Okay. Valuable. How does valuable help us or does not help us? Um. In agile processes. Yep. Um. And that's what they're debating, right? Exactly. The whole point of the planning and the the whole point of, uh, the planning game is to figure out how we can maximize the value for our customer. So if we have user stories that are not valuable, then why are we even, you know, estimating them? Why? Why do we even think about implementing them? So making sure that we have valuable user stories is the requirement to actually deliver and value to the user. Um, estimable. I mean, that that's kind of obvious, right? Like, if it's not estimable, of course we can't estimated small. How does small help us with agile processes? Yep. Mhm. Be able to like. Exactly right. If it doesn't fit in a sprint like, you can put it in a sprint. And also, if it's smaller, then it gives you more flexibility in scheduling. So if you're in the I mean, you've probably taken some class on I mean, you've probably taken an operating system, operating system as a prereq. You probably learned that scheduling is easier if you have, you know, smaller chunks. Um, because if you have really, really big chunks, you can really fill up your, um, um, your sprint in the most optimal way. So the smaller your work pieces are, the more flexibility you have in optimizing the, uh, the value that each sprint provides to the user. Um, and testable and thoughts on testable. I think the only way. Right? Yeah, exactly. So if you if you don't know whether you've successfully implemented the customer value, um, then, um, yeah, you put a larger burden on the, um, on the customer. Yeah. So this is kind of like just a summary of what we just described, that I forget anything. Yeah. Okay. This, this we talked about and I think negotiable and testable, a kind of less valuable for the planning game specifically, but still valuable, uh, across the agile. Um. Process. So the Invest principles were kind of specifically designed to help with these processes. Um, so I hope that they now kind of make a little bit more sense if they haven't made a lot of sense yet. Any questions about invest and how it relates to planning? And other hypotheses. Okay, cool. Then let's move to one of my favorite XP practices. Um, test driven development, TDD. Um, and my capstone. I was known as test driven Toby because, um, I love test driven development. Um, and the students in 35 L they have almost an entire lecture on test driven development. So they actually learn this maybe in a little bit more detail than you are. Um, but, um, the goal of test driven development is keep you focused on implementing the next feature and then avoiding scope creep, following a rhythm, and ensuring the highest quality. You can't really move fast if you have low test coverage. And test driven development is a great way of maximizing your test coverage. So test driven development follows a somewhat counter-intuitive rhythm where you first write the test. So the first step in TDD is writing a test that fails. You write a test that fails. This is a red stage. Uh, and then after you've written the test that fails, you then implement the smallest possible change that makes this code pass. This is the green stage. You make the the test green. Um, and then after you have written the smallest piece of code that makes the test pass, then you refactor, and then you make sure that you have a very clean implementation of your feature. Um, the goal of um, uh, this rhythm, uh, is, is very, very sophisticated and it's not necessarily obvious in the beginning why this makes sense. Uh, we'll talk about this in a few more detail in a few slides. But the main benefit of TDD is not actually finding bugs. So TDD is not a testing approach, even though testing is the first word in the name. Uh, it's a design approach. Uh, TDD is not necessarily just about finding bugs, but it's about writing software in a way where you think about the use of a function before you actually implement this. Um, it's a living documentation. Uh, you create, um, the documentation before you actually implement the feature. Right. So your test is specifically saying what the feature should do before you implement it. Um, it often in a small scope, leads to better design. Why is that? Why does test driven. Why may test driven development lead to better design? Does anybody have a have an idea why this may be the case? I think if you have an the answer to this question, you really understand this class, really understand this class. And again I feel like it helps. How does this help us with design, with the, you know, structure of our system? I think you are. You're almost there. Anybody want to build on this and answer yes. The test desired behavior that you want your application. Mhm. I mean first you just kind of look at that behavior as. Simple as possible. Yeah. You're not really coming up with complicated design. Mhm. And then when you refactor that you can of course improve that. So you end up with a much more cleaner application. Mhm. That we wouldn't have all these other things that you had sort of like big design. Mhm. We tried to implement that and then write tests. Yeah. So you do have the kind of, uh, frequent reminder of refactoring that makes your design cleaner. Um, but if you think about it from a, let's say, information hiding perspective, I think it makes a bit more sense that TDD. Can help you quite a bit. Um, because you think about the use of a method or class before you implement the how. Right. So you, you invite the contract for your module before you write the implementation. Right. You you start from the contract. The first thing you do is think about what is the easiest way, how I can use this module that I want, and then what is the contract that this module should fulfill. And then after you've written the contract, you then think about the best way to implement this. Right? So you you start from the interface. You write the interface before you even think about a way how you can implement it. So this means your interface is most likely to hide, um, design decisions because you have not made design decisions yet. You've just written the test and your test is defining the interface. Um. Why may test driven development? This is a really advanced question. Um, why may test driven development actually lead to really, really bad design? So now we've said it's really, really good design. But in what circumstances may test driven development lead to incredibly bad design to a point where, uh, Steve, um, I also he's a professor at Stanford. Uh, he believes that test driven development is the worst thing that has ever happened to Silicon Valley. The reason for all bad code. Um, yes. You just. You might. How do you over complicate things? I don't think that's the case. Then maybe. Then maybe the case and some some edge cases. But usually, um, test driven development does not create abstractions that you don't need. Um, because they don't have a test for them. Yeah yeah, yeah. So that has something to do with like. Um, people are trying so hard to fit the test. Uh, the entire structure of. Just not. Yes, I think that's that's the that's the right direction. So, um, when you think about the information hiding principle, it's not just about small contracts, right? So it helps us have small contracts of small interfaces, but it does not help us in figuring out what are the design decisions that are likely to change. And that should then define the primary hierarchy for our modules. Right. So in test driven development, we write a test, we implement the feature, we write a test, we implement the feature. We write a test, we implement the feature. So in a small module inside a module your design is great because we refactor inside of a module. We have a small interface for this module, but on a large scale between modules. Your interfaces may not necessarily hide large scale design decisions that are implemented across modules, because we've not even thought about them. You've just started with a test. So the recommendation for test driven development and information hiding approach is to only use it after you have created the high level architecture with your interfaces, and then you want to implement each module, each module individually. You then want to implement in a test driven approach, but you don't want to implement your entire application. In a test driven approach, you want to first think about your interfaces to architecture. How how does your high level structure hide important design decisions? And after you've done this, after you've gone through this design effort, then you are implementing each individual module using TDD. That's that's the recommendation that avoids all of these, uh, issues. Um, another advantage of TDD is that it actually increases productivity. A lot of people think, wait a second, you write tests, then you write code, then you refactor. So you just change the code that you've written like a minute ago. It sounds like a lot of work, right? But it's not actually the case because it helps you focus on the next task. You are never, ever writing code that has no purpose. You're always writing code that has purpose because you want to make a test pass, and you only create a test that has a specific requirement it should implement, right? So you're never writing code that is only there to plan for some future that will never exist. Um, so yeah, it does increase productivity. And it also, um, specifically increases productivity of junior developers. Um, so people who are just graduating like you, um, who may not necessarily have enough experience to quickly identify the mistakes they have made. So TDD helps you very, very quickly identify that you have made a mistake. Um, and um, if the time it takes to identify you have made a mistake is shorter, then it's still in your working memory. Uh, and then it's much easier for you to fix. So it delay, it shortens the feedback period. And identifying that you have a bug in your code, um, it shortens it to basically 30s. Right. Like a bug doesn't live longer than 30s because after 30s you're going to run your tests and then you realize, oh, there's a bug, and then you know exactly what the bugs. There's no debugging effort whatsoever in a TDD project. There's no debugging because you've just written the code that has the bug. There's no debugging. Okay, so the rules of test driven development, according to Robert C Martin. Uh, do not write a line of production code until you have a failing unit test. Uh, the reason why this rule makes sense is because the whole idea of TDD is, um, that you always have a specification before you implement it. You never want to write a line of code for which you do not have a test. Why might we want to write the test from a functional test design perspective first? So if we write the test from an interface design perspective first. But what is a reason? Um, from a perspective of test quality? To write the test first. This is really important. This is the whole key idea behind TDD. Yes. Mm. What threshold? Yeah. I'm not sure if if I get your point. Um. Yes. Right. So you start with a blackbox test. Um, but you could also write the blackbox test. Say, let someone else write the test. Um, the main reason why you want to write the test first is that you want to see the test fail. If you've never seen the test fail, you can't really have full confidence that your test is actually not having any false positives of false negatives, right? You may maybe have written the test in a way. You've made a mistake writing your test and you accidentally have written the test. It always passes. You have some tautology in your logical condition. You maybe have used some library function instead of the actual implementation you've used. Uh, you have misinterpreted the design of the interface. Uh, there are a lot of cases in which your test may, uh, always pass or may not be strong enough. Uh, if you've written the test first and you've seen that the test fails, you know that, uh, not having the feature makes the test fail, right? You don't have this confidence if you write the test afterwards. And then you do not write more of a unit test, then is sufficient for the test to fail. Why? Why? Why does this make sense? Why does this make sense? Why do we want to write the smallest unit test that fails? Instead of writing like 20 unit tests. And then we implement all of them. Yeah. So this is the problem. Like you don't wanna like. So you just want what's required for your home. Right. So you want to you want to switch back to implementing as quickly as possible to deliver value as quickly as possible and to make sure, um, that your, uh, your tests are actually, you know, failing in the, in the new implementation of the new feature. Um, so you want to you want to have you want to see tests fail in the right situation, and then you don't want to write more production code than is sufficient to pass the test. Uh, which, uh, often leads to making a lot of shortcuts that you are then refactoring. So, uh, yeah, TDD, I think is really, really nice approach to think about, uh, software development and that and a lot of empirical studies has been shown to really, really strongly benefit junior developers. Um, so do you need developers can really benefit from TDD a lot. So if you've not tried this out yet, um, I have a TDD tutorial with Python on the book, um, that I would recommend you to, uh, to play around with. Um, and then maybe think about if you can somehow integrate this into your project. I guess it only really makes sense if you would like to say, write a new module, right? Because TDD does really only benefit if you already have really high test coverage. So if you don't have high test coverage yet, then, uh, TDD doesn't really work well. Um, but a lot of people find these rules to be, um, a little bit tedious, right? Um, I would recommend you to stick to the rules until you feel like you've you've understood TDD because TDD doesn't really have, uh, it's hard to understand the benefit of TDD if you've never, uh, followed TDD based on these specific rules. Um, once you've understood TDD, you may break these rules and you can speed them up. And, you know, even Kent Beck, uh, sometimes writing more than one test was refactoring already while implementing. Um, but, um, you want to kind of understand TDD before you, uh, take these shortcuts. Um, and, uh, we will see in, um, a lecture, I think, in the last week and that this also works incredibly well with AI. This works incredibly well with AI. You write the test, AI makes it pass, works incredibly well. Um, but where might TDD work? Poorly. So these are the rules. If we always follow these rules, in which situations may this be absolutely terrible and would not be recommendable to anybody? Talk to enable. Its functionality. And I just realized I kind of forgot to give you a break. So let's maybe give you a break. Um, I'll. Five minutes and then we'll answer this question after the break of five minutes. You have to have. Yeah. Let's. Yes. Yes. Design patterns in general. Just like messing around with. Hey, what do you think? What, uh, what are situations in which TDD should never be used? And we would have to quit our job if we would actually use it this way. You. Know why it is? I think I need to make this an exam question. I think this is a really, really interesting question. Yeah. Um, this is something that's probably wouldn't work well if you're designing, like, intra module communication. Like if you if you like trying to test like a really, really big interface. Mhm. Mhm. And testosterone is probably not a good example of development. Mhm. Interesting. Inside that module. Or you can be a little bit more granular about the features. I think that makes sense. I think if you have let's say some really complex connector module, implementing this using TDD might be very very tedious right. Because you have so many different states, so much different complex behavior that could happen. You have maybe some kind of race conditions even like like implementing something that is a race condition safe. It's going to be super hard with TDD, right? How are you going to like get the race condition in your test without having an implementation like that's going to be really tedious. Um, that's a good answer. Um, any of the answers? I think it's somewhat related to this question. It's just to this example. So when you're thinking of TDD, what TDD does is that you start from a very simple solution, right? A very, very simple solution. And then you add more complexity incrementally, incrementally add more complexity. And that works for a lot of different problems. But it does not work for all kinds of problems. There's this nice metaphor. You are never gonna reach the moon by building taller and taller towers. Right. So if you start by building a tower to reach the moon, you feel like, oh, yes, I'm getting closer to the moon. I've built the tower. Yes, yes. Test is passing. Uh, and then you're adding a new test to get even closer to the moon. Build an even taller tower. You refactor your solution. You are. You feel like. Yes. You can make the test pass. I'm getting closer to the moon after effect of my solution. I'm doing TDD really, really well. And at some point, you reach the point where you just can't really build a taller tower to reach the moon. You have to build a spaceship to reach the moon. Um, and you're not going to get to building a spaceship if you start by building smaller, small, uh, taller and taller towers. Right. So if your solution is not an incremental improvement to simpler solutions. TDD doesn't work. TDD only works for problems that have a structure that allows you to incrementally improve simpler solutions. A lot of problems in research and in really, really complex behaviors and algorithms that don't necessarily have that kind of structure. But most of the problems that you encounter on a day to day basis do have that structure. Most of them do. So. Yeah, it works well for well defined problems of non-obvious solutions. I mean, if the solution is obvious, you just implement the solution, right? You don't need to have these, uh uh uh, multiple different kind of tests. You just implement the correct solution. Right. If you're implementing, um, an algorithm that you've learned in, in 180, like you don't want to use the test driven approach to start with a simpler version of the algorithm. I don't know what could be accomplished. Um, complex. No. You you implement the algorithm you've learned in 180. That's why I take 180 to learn all of the different algorithms. Um, and then using a TDD approach to implement this, if you already know the algorithm makes no sense. Um, it does not really work well for really, really complex behavior. Or the solution to your problem is not an incremental improvement to a simpler solution. For example, if you want to implement an Acid compliant database, uh, you don't start with an, uh, a compliant database and then implement in a C compliant database and then an ACI compliant database. And then finally you've implemented a nested compliant database. No, you think about what an asset compliant database implementation should be and then you implement it, uh, when you have distributed databases and you don't really think about a non distributed database and then make it distribute it. No. You think you have to start from scratch with your design for a distributed database systems that have non binary success outcomes. If you have image recognition systems this doesn't necessarily uh like if you have image recognition systems and improvement to your overall image recognition algorithm does not necessarily mean that you still have to pass all of the tests that you've passed earlier. You may have some statistical or quantitative arguments where you're saying you want to, uh, have more of the, uh, images correctly recognized. Um, and then you don't have binary outcomes. Or when you're testing on function properties such as response time and availability, it's not like saying, okay, now we we make it a, um, we add a new test case for availability as well. We make a new test case for response time as well. That doesn't usually work this way. Um, okay. Does this make sense? I think if you understand this, you're really well on track to to do great in this class because this combines a lot of different thoughts from information hiding, from testing, from software processes. So it's a great kind of component integration. Uh, question that I think we'll probably do. Well, uh, on testing. Who has. Who has understood the concepts in this class in a final exam? Cool. If there are no more questions, let's move on to collective code ownership. I think this is one that every team in this course should definitely practice, and I think we actually have put at least one small mechanism in place of encouraging this by telling you you should have code reviews. And we're going to talk about all of the details of how to professionally conduct a code review on Thursday. Um, the goal of collective code ownership is to increase what's called the bust sector. Who has heard of the buzz factor? Oh, UCI has not prepared you well for software engineering classes. Um. You're so lucky that you're taking one right now. Um, the bus sector, um, is the smallest number of people who can. Or the largest number of team members who can suddenly be hit by a bus or, you know, be unavailable. Uh, without the project stalling. So, uh, the goal of thinking about the bus sector is to ensure that you have some kind of redundancy. If you know somebody gets sick in the last week, you still want to submit your project. If somebody gets sick next week, you do want to make progress on all of the features you need to implement next week. Um, if the one person who has implemented the most important feature suddenly, um, um, it has to deal with a family emergency. You do not want, uh, to have to rewrite the entire feature just to make a change. Uh, to add the new feature you want. You want your code to be understood by multiple people. You want multiple people to be able to make changes to the code. Um, and. Yeah. The more people are familiar with each code, the better. Um, and the way how you do this is by making sure that every everyone in the team, uh, may and should feel comfortable making changes to each of the modules. So everyone is responsible for the code of the project. There's no code that's just owned by a single person, where only that one person may make the change. Um, this is a principle that exists in multiple companies, but the exact opposite actually exists at Google. Uh, so at Google, there is for every single module, there's always one owner of the code. So whenever you're submitting a pull request, um, the one owner of the module has to be a reviewer. But the the goal is not to say nobody may make changes to the code. It just means there's one person who is responsible for making sure that all of the changes that are happening to this module, uh, uh, in accordance with all of the previously made design decisions. And, um, so Google's um. Non collective code ownership is kind of different from um. It's not a, it's not an open. It's not the opposite of collective ownership from an XP perspective. Because XP, just as every person may and should feel comfortable making changes. Um, it does not say that we want to, um, not make somebody feel in charge, because the advantage of this is that we generally have fewer bugs, right? The more people, uh, are able to comfortably make changes, uh, the less likely they are going to be bugs. Because this means that if somebody does have to make changes, um, they also they're more eyes on the code, right? The more people look at the code, the more people identify bugs. Also, there's no single point of failure. Um, the faster, um, we can implement new features, the fewer bottlenecks we have, the better. And in general, you want to do anything you can to increase your base factor, because people are always, uh, people do not have the same availability as AWS. So AWS has really high availability. They put a lot of design into making sure they have high availability. People do not have the same availability criteria. So you do not want to rely on there's one person, and I've actually been thinking of a way how I can integrate this in teaching. Um, I've not really come up with a good way to do this in 130. So, uh, you do not have any bus factor, uh, requirements for this course? I was kind of thinking of maybe bus factoring one team member per week where I say, okay, I randomly pick one team every week. Was not able to like, you should not respond on slack or not support, uh, do any coding or whatever, but I've not really come up with a good approach that that does this really well. Uh, so you kind of maybe lucky or unlucky that you're not getting this experience, um, the way how you want to think about it. Um, but, yeah, the disadvantage of the pure idea of collective code ownership is that if everybody is responsible, nobody feels responsible. And then it's just really, really hard to make sure that the code feels consistent. And then all of the checks are done. And this is kind of why, uh, at Google, what they do is they do still assign a person who is visible, who should feel responsible. Everybody can make changes, but one person should feel responsible for the module. And you know, this can can result in mixed styles and spaghetti code. So, um, yeah. So the way how you fix this is just by making sure that there's always one person who should feel responsible, while still allowing everybody to suggest changes and make changes and review code. Okay. Questions on collective. Who is who feels like that? You are kind of practicing this as best as you can in the project. Okay. That's kind of what I was expecting. That's kind of what often happens in these course projects where everybody gets that task and then they just, you know, submit a pull request and that kind of merge of themselves. Um. Uh, try. Try to practice this in your projects. Um, if you're not getting experience with this, I think you'll you'll have, um. You're not well prepared for industry because in industry this is really, really important. Like all of the, um, professional software development companies, they are really, really trying to, um, make sure they have high buzz factor. You know, because, you know, people leave the company. People. Uh, people get pregnant, people get sick, people, you know, move to a different place. So and professional development, it's incredibly important to maximize perspective. And this is the best way to do this. Okay. Yeah, that's been quite a bit of research on collective ownership that it does indeed prevent knowledge silos and ensures that project progress is not halted if a specific code owner is unavailable or leaves the organization. So this is kind of like, uh, empirical evidence that the boss effect has indeed increased. Uh, it also impacts team cohesion. So contrary to belief that code ownership automatically improves team bonding, research does show that they are um, um. Not necessarily. Um, actually doing this. So, uh, research comparing XP and Nonexempt teams found higher scores for team cohesion and nonexempt teams. Um, I'm not really sure if the the research is somewhat old from 2010. Um. Uh, this is Laurie Williams. Um, research. Um, yeah, I think. I would love to see a replication of this study because I think in the modern world, if you do this in a large scale, I would not necessarily expect the same results. But this this is the best available evidence we currently have. Um, impact on code quality is that, uh, yeah. So it often results in kind of missing documentation and spaghetti code. But I again think that this is this is not a inherent property of a collective code ownership. I think this is a property that just results from, not correctly, um, approaching collective code ownership. The solution to the spaghetti code problem, uh, is coding standards, which is surprised. Another XP practice, I think. I think XP practices are designed in a really, really, really, uh, effective way. They are a project in which it's not going to work well, but I think in most projects actually works really well. So coding standards, um, which team has explicit coding standards? What? We really need to bring more of these topics into earlier classes. I, I feel really bad that students are starting their capstone project not knowing any of this. Um, you need to move this in like 35 L because, um, how are you going to do a course project without coding a capstone without going anyways? Okay, now is the time for you to implement coding standards. Yay! Coding standards. Uh, the goal of coding standards is that when you look at a piece of code, you are unable to identify who wrote the code. Right. Because, uh, if you are able to identify who wrote the code, that means people are using different kind of styles of coding. Um, and that often results in, uh, less readability. Right? If all code looks the same, it's easier for you to recognize patterns in the code. It's easier for you to understand what the code does because all code looks very similar. You want us. You want code to be easily recognizable. And the way how you make code easily recognizable is by following common patterns across your, uh, implementations. Um, this is how you improve the readability of your code. Yeah. So it does not necessarily matter what the standard is. So in open source projects you see the longest conversations about which coding sentence you should you should the space be should the space be before or after the bracket opening. Should there be spaces between the equal sign or should there be no spaces between? People have so very different opinions on this, and it does not matter what the standard is. It just matters that everybody sticks to it. Yes. Is there like a benefit to doing this through? Well, it matters at the time when you merge it into main. That's the time when it matters. Um, I think, um, there is some benefit in creating it, not creating code that conforms, that does not conform to coding standards. And there are actually, uh, automatic tools that can, um, you hook this into pre-commit, um, uh, pre-commit hooks. So git has this amazing feature where you can say a before you are able to make a commit, you have to run this command. And this command checks that your, for example, code passes the tests or that it conforms to your coding standards. So you can define all of these pre-commit hooks. And I think, um, if you have coding standards you should make them mandatory pre-commit hooks in git, uh, so that you cannot make a commit that, um, does not conform to your coding conventions, because once you create a commit, um, you often are like, oh, I'll fix this later. Right. And then you have this huge amount of code that you have to make style, conform with your coding conventions and then, uh, you, you don't get to it and then you just merge the pull request because you need the feature because the deadline happens or whatever. Uh, so I recommend you to just not accumulate the amount of code that would, um, make you get in trouble. Um, yeah. So these are coding conventions about indentation capitalization and variable naming commenting. And they are they can be automated and they can also be checked and code review. Um, um, yeah. And you can also if you use AI in your, your team, you can um, you know, put that make put this annual M.D. and be like, okay, follow these coding standards and you have some explicit markdown file somewhere in your repository where you describe your coding standard as an AI coding agent that makes sure that the code that they write is also conforming to your coding standards. Um, yeah. I think this is a, uh, a really great way for you to ensure that, um, code always looks the same. That is easy, easily understandable by people who have contributed to the project. And it also, the advantage of putting this in your cloud is that your agent is not going to say, oh, this is not the style that I now somehow feel like it's the right style and accidentally changing all of your code, and then you have this huge diff, I don't know, has anybody experienced this before where cloud is just kind of randomly changing some some lines? Okay. A couple of you. Okay. I think if you have not raised your hand, you've not gotten enough experience of clawed or somehow you have you have uh, you have gotten um, you already have the Magic Cloud MD that does this already, which of course would be even better. But I think if you don't have this in your cloud and then you've not raised your hand and then you should get a little bit more experience of cloud because I think, uh, just as Jensen Huang said, uh, uh, two days ago, uh, at the Carnegie Mellon commencement, um, uh, you're not going to be replaced by AI, but you're going to be replaced by somebody who uses AI more effectively than you are. Um, so I think if you are close to graduation, you want to get skills and how to use AI effectively. And I think coding standards is one of the ways how, um, um, yeah, you can kind of set yourself apart in the way how you use AI. Um, unfortunately, we're kind of out of time. Um. Yeah, we'll finish this. We'll finish this, um, on Thursday. Uh, let me get you to the exit ticket and, uh, hope the exit ticket is actually, um, you can answer it with. Oops. Oh, no, this is the wrong lecture. Um, this is 35 L. Uh, 30 5L1. That's what's the good times, right? And things were still easy. Uh, okay. This is the 130. Oh, we have not talked about waste yet. If not talked about. No. Okay. Okay. Good, good. Okay. This is not actually about waste. Okay. Awesome. Perfect. You can't answer this. And the, um, password for the exit ticket, of course, is. Kent Beck. Just Beck as the last name. Yeah. Okay. How can you optimize the process? Yeah. I think in an earlier version I was kind of focusing in on eliminating waste, which is the part of lean development actually kind of like we have overlapping lectures because this means you always get the benefit of remembering the previous lectures on Thursday. Well, do a little bit of recap on agile before we move to code review. I actually kind of like this. This actually follows learning science principles more effectively. Oh, and, uh, just in case you weren't aware, we will have a homework due on Thursday. I think on Friday, I think we move to Friday. I don't remember. But whatever the, uh, the grade school says it's going to be true. Um. Oh, yeah, I think Thursday. And then the late due date is Friday. I think that's what we usually do in 130. So if you have not seen the Piazza post, um, be sure to check out the homework. I hope it's going to be, um, insightful. Uh, you're going to practice some testing principles.