[Auto-generated transcript. Edits may have been applied for clarity.] In one minute. By the way, do you understand what the purpose of this of this graphic is? I have been told that not everybody, uh. Gets the meaning of the. So this is unit test. So we we want to built the car and we we want to unit test the engine. So we remove the engine and then we put it in a test bed. And then we, we test the, the engine separately. Okay. And, um, let me, um, start the recording. Uh, this is a brand new lecture at UCLA. This has not been, um, taught at UCLA so far. Um, this has been taught. To. CMU grad students. Uh, so I prepared this. I prepared an earlier version of this lecture for for the CMU graduate students, the master's students in software engineering. Um, and I think. I think especially with AI being on the rise, I think the number, the the kinds of skills that students need, um, in the space of quality assurance. Um. Uh, I'm more than in the past, so I believe that, um, with, uh, I doing more, uh, coding and more design, um, the responsibility of the human developer will shift more towards requirements engineering and quality assurance. And, and my fellow, um, colleagues, um, uh, I think across the country kind of agree with that. Uh, at least the ones that, um, consider themselves software engineering researchers. Um, so, uh, this is why I felt like I'm going to add a new lecture on quality assurance, um, a topic that I think, uh, will be really, really useful for anybody here who wants to get an industry job, who who wants to get an industry job, some kind of job where your title is something building software, software, software engineer, person developer. Uh, something something like that. Okay, cool. Um, so in this lecture, you're going to learn how to design testable software. So this is about designing software that is testable. And then also how can we test quality attributes. So we've looked at testing the functionality of the system uh, quite extensively. And the, the the previous testing lectures, this lecture that's going to be a bit more about how we test, um, quality attributes and, and also how can we actually increase our test coverage beyond just the, um, uh, the pure, uh, functionality of, um, you know, we've looked at, um, we've looked at symbolic execution as a formal technique for increasing test coverage. This one will be about a slightly more practically minded approach to increasing test coverage. How can we test software in different domains? So in software engineering, the correct answer to 90% of the questions is it depends. Because depending on what domain you're working in, uh, your approach has to be different. And we're going to talk about how you have to tailor your tailor your testing approach based on whether you're building web apps, um, whether you're building, uh, mobile apps, whether you're building, um, robotic systems or whether you build the next helicopter that should fly on Mars. Um, the main case study, um, in this lecture is going to be Netflix. So Netflix has developed an incredible, uh, really interesting quality assurance process. Um. Um, so, yeah, you're gonna you're gonna see how Netflix does it, and then we're going to generalize from there. Before we jump into how to design testable systems, first, let's define what testability actually is. Testability is a quality attribute that defines the degree to which the functionality and quality attributes of the system, or a component can be assessed via automated runtime observability. So it's kind of like a question of how easily can we make the system reveal its faults. Um, and how hard is it to write effective tests? And I like to say testing is nice, but testability is better because testing on its own doesn't necessarily, uh, make your software better, right? Testing gives you confidence in your software, and it, of course, can reveal some bugs. Uh, but if it doesn't reveal bugs, the test on its own is not going to have an impact on your software. But if you think about testability of your system, you often end up with a better software design, not just purely for the purpose of testing, but also from the perspective of just, um, understandability and, um. We define testability as the combination of controllability and observability. So controllability is how easy is it to provide a program or component with the needed inputs, values, operations or behavior and bring it in the desired state? So when we want to test our system, we need to make sure it is in the state and we can actually put the inputs into the system, uh, of the situation that we would like to assess. Um that's controllability. Uh, observability, uh, is how easy it is to observe the behavior of a program in terms of outputs, quality attributes, effect on the environment or of other hardware and software components. So, uh. Testability is basically the combination of these two. So we want to control the system to be in the state we want to observe, and then we want to observe it. And these two are very, very, uh, distinct challenges that come with their own separate solutions. And in some situations it's much harder to design for controllability. In some situations it's much harder to design for observability. So we have to separate them a little bit. Um. Durum who remembers the Global Distribution system case study we looked at when we talked about interoperability. Okay. That's very good. So a reminder for everybody else. So GDS was the system that enables almost all booking systems and almost all airlines uh, to communicate with each other. And we want to now write our own booking system and our booking system. That is our system under test or some system. So we want to write the system and we want to test that it works correctly. But our system uh, uses the GDS uh, as a separate component. You can also think about this. This is maybe a slightly more, um, applicable situation to the, uh, challenges that you may encounter when you start working in the real world. You may be using some, uh, land based API, uh, of an AI provider. So you may send a lot of requests to OpenAI or to anthropic or to whoever is providing your AI services. Um, so you you depend on this additional separate instance that you do not have full control over. What kind of testing challenges arise from that situation, that you depend on another component that's not under your control. Any thoughts? Well. API deprecation. That. Um. Oops. Oh, sorry. You don't like, uh, candy? Uh. Um. That is a challenge. I wouldn't necessarily say it's a testing challenge because that would also be an operational challenge, right? If you're using an older version of the API, you actually kind of wouldn't want to know that this is happening. Um, but what makes testing hard? If you send requests and expect replies from an external service, then may potentially cost you money. It's expensive, right? Uh, so how are we going to how are going to test systems that use these APIs? Do we want to just pay like ten bucks for every test we run? You know. That's right. So we have to kind of replace our real system with a mock component. So this is our dependent on component that should not be exercised during our tests. So we have to replace this with a mock component or test stub. Um that is um replacing this um, and when whenever our system under test has a dependent on component that it sends requests to and that it, uh, or that it just gets indirect inputs from. So we call those indirect outputs when they are sent to the dependent on component, we call them indirect inputs. When they received from the dependent on component and injecting indirect inputs. That's the controllability challenge. So how do we make our dependent on components send the exact requests that we would like our, uh, set to be exercised for. Um, and then verifying indirect outputs. That's an observability challenge. So this is a question of how can we make sure that our system is sending the right request to our dependent on component? Um, and they can happen in any kind of order, so we can have a situation where our state is receiving some inputs, and then it's sending some indirect outputs to our dependent on a component, and then it receives some response. But it could also happen, uh, in a, in a case where our dependent on component first initiates, um inputs and then we receive some system level inputs and we send some indirect outputs here and then outputs here, so that there are a lot of different orders in which they happen. So we often think about them like this. Like this seems like a really really easy case. We just replace our dependent on component with like like a mock component and test stuff. Uh, but those situations are then making this a little bit harder. Um, let's think about purely the, uh, situation where our dependent on where our system under test is sending indirect outputs. Um, so, uh, in GDS, this would be we send, uh, GDS requests in, um, uh, in the testing lecture we have had earlier where our system is a, um, it's a trading system. Uh, we want to make sure that we send well-formed buy and sell orders without actually sending real buy and sell orders to the stock exchange. In the case of using an AI provider, it's a question of do we send the right requests to an LM provider without being charged for this request? These are all kind of examples of the how can we observe indirect outputs sent to a separate dependent on component? Any ideas how we could test this? Any ideas? And then. And then we would put. What do we put inside of our mock component or mock object. We just have. Yeah. Okay, that that kind of makes sense. So the the mock object pattern is similar to what you describe, which you describe is more of a test spy than the mock object. We have this in the next slide. Uh, in the mock object situation, we replace our dependent on component with an object or component that has the same interface. But then it doesn't have any implementation. It just has assertion statements in there. So we replace our dependent on component with a mock object that then has the assertions inside of the mock object. Okay. So then we check that we receive well-formed, uh, statements, and our test is just then injecting, um, this mock object, a lot of different, uh, testing frameworks that support this. Um, so you don't have to do this yourself, that test frameworks that do this. You just have to think about using a mock object and then coming up with the assertions, and you put this in place. Okay. Questions about this. Okay. This is helping with observability because we are verifying our inner outputs. Okay. Let's think about a slightly different. Scenario. Now we are not checking for the well-formed ness of the rules. Now we want to make sure that they are sent in the right order. So we want to make sure that our stock trading system is sending buy and sell orders in the right order that our A trading and then our um. Um, booking system is sending the right request to GDS in the right order, or that our LM provider is sending the, uh, LRM requests in the right order. Um, what do we have to change here? Can we use the same pattern? Can we just put assertions right inside of our mock object? We replace the dependent on component of a mock object. We put some assertions and is this is this going to work? I can. We can't just rely on Elliot. We can just rely on Elliot. I need somebody else to help me out here. I have no idea. Right. It's a new topic for me as well. I have not seen. Yes. You can do what? You still have to come out of this business. So I got to the person. Yeah. So we store this state instead of having the assertions in our mock object, our mock object, it's just recording all of the requests. Right. So it's taking a record of all of the requests. And then it gives us a way to retrieve the history of the requests. We call this a test spy. So a test spy is just collecting data. And then our test can ask the test spy. Can you please give me all of the, the list of of requests you've received? Uh, and then we have the assertions in our test. Okay. Okay. It's the difference between a mock object and a test by clear. Questions about the difference between the two. Yeah, but. That's. Yeah. So we call we call these two patterns differently because they solve slightly different problems. And because the solution is kind of um. So, so when you yeah you test by can still also include assertions on top of off the recording. Right. They can also still check the well-formed rules. And you have two patterns applied to the same object. That is also possible. That is very much possible. I'm very much possible. Okay. Still an observability check. What would be a controllability problem here? What would be an example of a controllability problem? So we've looked at observability problems. What are examples of controllability problems either for the trading system or for our GDS booking system or for our LM provide us. Okay. We can go. We can go back to the definition of controllability. Controllability is how easy it is to provide a programable component with the needed inputs. Okay. The part of the class that seems to not be able to think of an answer. Can you think of a question that helps me understand what you're not getting? Okay, I guess, uh. I take this island as, uh. We're just going to. We are just going to move on without interaction. That's also fine. That is also fine. It can move to a more traditional lecture, if that is what you prefer. Okay. Traditional lecture mode it is. So our, uh, a controllability challenge would be, uh, checking that our system is responding to requests or, uh, responses from our dependent on component in the right way. So in observability challenges, we are dealing with verifications. Uh, so in controller up, observability challenges, uh, about verifying indirect outputs, controllability challenges are about injecting the right indirect inputs. Uh, so an example of this would be a testing your system behaves correctly when receiving various responses from an NLP provider or testing, and that the training system responds correctly to updates on the stock market price for the uh GDS booking system example. An example would be that, um, you want to, um, behave correctly if your GDS, for example, is offline. So you have some situations where GDS may be offline or where it sends you, uh, something, uh, some error and you want to respond to the error correctly. And the way how you do this is that you replace your, um, component with a test stub. So a test stub is a component and that is just, uh, returning hardcoded values. So instead of replicating the real behavior, you are just returning hardcoded values, uh, in your test stub. So you are basically just returning the, the values that, uh, you specifically would like to inject into your test. So in your usual test case, you would provide the, um, the inputs directly from the test in a test stub. You can't do this. So you replace your dependent on component with a test stub. And that is, um, just returning the, uh, the specific inputs. So your problem here is how can we control indirect inputs sent from dependent on components in a situation where we cannot easily intercept the connector? Um, and the solution is to create what we call a test stub. The replaces the dependent on component and then sends the indirect inputs to the system under test. Any questions about this? Yes. Oh, okay. So so I just highlighted the indirect inputs as these are the ones we are caring about. Uh, so depending on whether the indirect inputs are initiated or whether they are, um, like a return to the indirect outputs, um, yet a test stub is implemented in a different way. So it has stub could just send a request or it could, it could be a hard coded return to a, to a uh, to a request. So we are trying to adjust indirect indirect inputs. And we do this by either responding to indirect outputs. So we're replacing the doc. Okay. He. Oh. Indirect. Okay. So. Okay. That makes sense. Okay. So we have the direct inputs that are the ones that our test can send to the system under test directly. Right. So these are going to be like if you have a function like your function is just receiving direct inputs of the indirect outputs. And the indirect inputs, uh, are the ones that are not part of the direct communication between the test and the system. So your system under test is making this request to the the dependent on component, without the test being able to directly see them. Right. So these are for example like Http requests or these are uh, you know, whatever the protocol you use to talk to the dependent on component. This is, uh, outside of the scope that the test can observe directly. Um, so this is why we call them indirect, because, um, they are, uh, outputs sent from the system to another component, not to the test. Okay. So this makes sense. Okay, good. Other questions. Okay. These three patterns, um, in practice, many people just call all of these three mock object. So if you see mocking libraries, they usually do all of these three. In the academic literature we call all of these test doubles. So test doubles is the academic term um for these three. And there's also like fake objects in it. Um, a few more. Uh, but these are the three that I think, um, are the most important ones. It's the difference between these three. Clear. Any questions about the difference between these three? Okay when you are trying to ensure controllability. You basically have to make sure that your, um, system can manipulate configuration settings in a testing environment. So your configuration settings can be part of the interface of your component. And therefore they should be tested that your system is working well in the right configuration settings. And because they are usually not direct inputs against some kind of configuration environment, you need to make sure that you are able to manipulate all of the configuration settings. So when you are implementing systems that read environment variables, well, you need to make sure that the mechanism you use to do this, um, can also be uh, uh, changed easily in the testing environment. You want to make sure that you can easily inject inputs and test data that you can easily create and insert test stubs, that there are no cyclic dependencies. Why are cyclic dependencies a problem of controllability? My cyclic dependency is a problem of controllability. So cyclic dependencies is when the component you depend on also depends on you. It's a cyclic dependency. Well. Exactly. It's almost impossible to. Oh, sorry. I always forget that you don't like, um. Um, exactly. So you, uh. It's. It makes it much harder for you to mock them individually or to stop them individually if they are not, um, uh, in a, in a cyclic dependency. And then if you have a system that interacts with the physical environment, well, then you need some kind of, uh, simulator or emulator that allows you to control for different physical environments such as temperature or, or wind or whatever your system may interact with. Your checklist for observability includes. Can all component states be accessed by your test? So if there is component state that really strongly defines functionality. If you can easily ask the component to reveal this state, um, this is a bad thing. Is anybody thinking, oh, this is weird, this is weird. This may violate one of the principles I've learned earlier in the class. No. Yes. Lavinia. Exactly. And maybe by relating information. Hiding. Uh, how could we fix this? Not likely, but we could. We could somehow, uh, say there is some component state that should only be accessible to tests, but not to other components. So we could hide them from other components, but not from the tests. We could put this in the interface like this is only supposed to be called from tests. This would be a way. Uh, and then is it easy to create an insert test? Doubles are logs generated for all critical events. This is kind of like using a test stub. Um, and then we can kind of infer the parts of the behavior that we need to assert. Right? Observability is basically about how can we write good assertions and controllability. How can we write a good set up? Okay. Questions about this. Yeah. Yes. Yeah, most tests require both because most tests have some set up procedure and then also some assertions. But in, uh, in tests that, um, that don't have a dependent on component, usually it's a bit easier to deal with, right. If you just have mathematical functions. Well, the controllability and observability is trivial, right? Uh, but if you have real world systems, in real world systems, you're going to have a lot of assertions that you want to write on something that's not as easy to infer. Um, for example, when you write web apps, right, when you add rubbers, it's going to be hard to bring the web app into the state that you want it to be in. Um, and it's hard to assert behavior because it's just going to be like some HTML page, right? It's not as easy to write assertions, uh, on web pages as it is to write assertions on just the return value of a function. It's possible, like the testing frameworks like playwright that help you do this. Um, but it's harder, right? Um. Yeah. So these are problems that are mostly just occurring in practice, not in like theory. So now we're kind of like in a, in a more practical part of software engineering than in previous lectures. Um, okay. Um. Let's. Think about how we test quality attributes. What is a quality? But again. What's a quality attribute? Yes, she. Mm. Right. So it's a degree of goodness about your system or your component that is not purely functional. And how do we specify quality attribute requirements? Yes. We need a metric. Uh, and what else? Like if you like. Yeah, I call this kind of like this scenario. And then the measure. So these are the two the two parts. So the scenario part is about controllability. How can we get the system in the situation that we would like to observe. And then our measure is about observability. So when you think about reliability properties for example we could say the functionality uh they should be reliable. For example, if you think about Netflix because this is going to be our case study, we want to say watching movies should be reliable. So then we want to say the functionality is that whenever the user is, uh, requesting to watch Squid Game, uh, and then the measure is the percentage of deviation that preserve functionality, uh, would be, uh, whenever the user was watching Squid Game, even if the network is slow. Uh, and then we define slow very precisely. Then we want to, uh, we want to still see some movie. We do not want to see an error. Uh, so we and reliability on a describe deviations from the main, uh, operating scenario for which the system should still work correctly. And, uh, when you think about Netflix, well, you have a lot of deviations from norm. You have lower network latency, you have higher load, you have, uh, maybe some DDoS scenario, you maybe have, um, uh, scenarios where people where everybody wants to watch Squid Game and nobody wants to watch anything else. Because now then, like last season, a Squid Game is released. Uh, now everybody wants to watch just this one show and none of the other shows. Um. Okay. Let's talk about this on the example of Netflix. Okay. So let's assume Netflix has these three microservices. They have a video validation service. They have a video encoding service. And they have a, uh, a complex analysis service. Um, what would you guess how Netflix tests the reliability of their systems under the, um, deviation that some of these services may become unavailable. How do you think they do that? Yes. That's exactly what they are doing. That is exactly what they are doing. This is called chaos engineering. So in chaos engineering, what happens is that they randomly or pseudo randomly pick some services that they just kill. They're like, okay, now you're offline, right? They send a message to the service and the service is offline. And Netflix is famous for being one of the few companies that uses chaos engineering, not just in the testing environment, but also in the production environment. Uh, almost everybody uses chaos engineering just in the testing environment. So they deploy their services and then they they run the reliability tests in the a testing environment. But this is this comes with some challenges. What kind of challenges may this come with. Just running your reliability tests in the purely in the testing enviroment adding some. Right. So this would be a downside of, uh, of running tests in your, um, in your production environment. Well, if your system does not perform well when they are, customers will actually not be able to watch their favorite show. Uh, and then they may cancel their Netflix subscription. Uh, and then you have fewer revenue. Um, but what would be a downside of just running it purely in the testing environment, not in the production environment. What would be a downside of that? Yes. Exactly. So your the environment of your testing set up may not necessarily generalize to your production environment. You may be running on different servers. You may be dealing with just a much larger scale. Right. Um, so this is why Netflix is running all of the reliability tests in the production environment. And they tell this to their developers. They say, well, your microservice will be shut down in the production environment with this, uh, frequency. You have just have to deal with it. You just have to build your systems reliable enough that your services can just be shut down by our chaos monkey. It's called chaos monkey. The, um, uh, the, uh, chaos engineering framework. This is exactly what they do. So they kill random services. Uh, and then they measure how this impacts other services. So if I kill one instance of this service, there may still be, like, a few other instances, but, uh, does this service still operate correctly when the service instance it has been talking to is then suddenly killed? Um, and then also it's the restart successful. So when I kill the service, there's some other component. Um, um, actually restart this. And as this reminds me that. We actually wanted to start this lecture. With software architecture techniques. Which is the approach that does this. Is using one of the techniques that I, um. Wanted to teach you about. So if you remember from the previous lecture on software architecture. We've discussed quality attributes. We've discussed architectural styles and architectural styles help you design your systems for particular, um, quality attributes because every single architectural style comes with the trade off of quality attributes. Tactics are specific, kind of like design patterns that you can use to achieve, um, um, quality attributes that you can add in an existing system. So architectural styles are the predominant shape of your architecture. And you can kind of just like, you know, pick them like once or twice. It's going to be like one predominant architectural style of your system, maybe in the module view. And then there may maybe another one, maybe in the component uh connective you. So you may be able to choose like 1 or 2 different architectural styles, but then you're kind of done with your decisions. But if you then still need to tailor your system for different quality attributes, what you do is that you implement these so-called the tactics. So they're kind of like architectural patterns that promote a particular desired quality attribute. And if you study these tactics, this helps you then respond to the need. When your boss tells you now we need to make our system more reliable. Now we need to make our system more available. Now we need to make our system higher performance. And, um. The good thing good news is that they're all written down in a book that you can read. Um, so we're going to just look at a couple of them in this lecture, and then you can read the rest in your book. Okay. Let's say the problem that you should be addressing is that to ensure dependability, assess the should detect faults before they escalate to failures by determining of a specific component, node or system has stopped working at exactly the one that we are now thinking about with Netflix, right? We have this one Netflix component. This is now unavailable. How do we detect this? Any ideas? Talk to a neighbor. I'll give you 30s to talk about. This is a neighbor. And then we're going to brainstorm some ideas together. Any any thoughts? How can we do this? Nathan. They can get a call and they don't get a response. If they call and don't get response. So you're basically saying we shift the responsibility of detecting availability to every single component that makes a request. Wow. That that, um, that that's going to keep your software engineers busy, that keeps your components quite complex. But every single component needs this code. The Texas right. This makes the components a little bit more complex than they have to be. But is there a way how we can use Nathan's idea, uh, without adding this one, this fungibility on every single component that makes the request? Elliot. Exactly. So instead of every component, uh, measuring the time when they make a request, the natural request, we have a component that just regularly sends requests to all of the other components, uh, and then measures the response time or like, whether they respond. We call this a ping echo tactic, a ping echo tactic. So we have an additional watchdog component that then sends these ping requests to all of the components. And then if they don't respond within a timeout then we consider them to be offline. And then we use some kind of like recovery mechanism. So we send a ping, we get an echo everything. That's fine. We send a ping. This one stops working. We timeout. So we we create a new recovery component. Um. That has a little bit of a downside. What. So this increases availability. But what is the downside here. What is the downside here. Yeah, well. Right. So what happens? Who watches the watchdog? Right. Who watches the watchdog? That's the problem. Is there another problem? Yeah. Elliot. So we just have like a ton more messages, right? Like we regularly send these messages like all of these components need to like also handle those requests. Right. So we kind of reduce the performance of our system by by creating a higher load situation. And we have to say maybe a design we could come up with that kind of design, both the same thing, but without adding as much burden on our network where we just send fewer messages. Yeah. That's right. That's what we call this the heart beat tactic. The heart beat tactic. Every single component regularly sends the message, I'm alive, I'm alive, I'm alive, I'm alive. It doesn't have to respond to a request. We don't have to send a request over the network. We just have to listen to all of the heartbeats. And then, um, if a heartbeat from one component has no current within, uh, a specific timeout, then we consider that component to be offline, and then we go back in our recovery mode and then start a new component. Um, yeah. So these are two incredibly common components, uh, incredibly common tactics you see all over, uh, any kind of component based systems. And, um, actually, that was a really common bug in open SSL, um, where the heartbeat, um, was, uh, prone to a, a buffer override error and then resulted in one of the, um, kind of most famous, um, uh, security bugs of the, um, early 20 tens, uh, what's called Heartbleed, who has sort of Heartbleed. Heartbleed was a bug where the heartbeat of OpenSSL was was flawed and then they patched it. Okay. Uh, if we want to compare somehow, I turned off the animations here. If we compare the heartbeat and, uh, the echo. So both of them improve. Availability of both of them inhibit performance. But, uh, the the heartbeat inhibits performance a little bit less than the ping echo. So the ping echo sends twice as many messages. And then also, uh, makes the component kind of respond to the message, which also takes up a little bit more compute. Um, and yeah, we have it here. We have the entire, um, mechanism just implemented in one single component and one single component. So if nobody sends a ping like you can just turn this behavior off, right. You can just turn it off by not sending a ping. So you have one component that decides whether this behavior is happening or not. Uh, so you can turn this on and off very easily. It has more messages. But here you have this implementation, uh, in every single component, you need this kind of complex heartbeat subroutine that knows about this. And but you have fewer messages. So you have this kind of trade off. You shift the responsibility, uh, but you get a little bit more, uh, performance, um, with the with the heartbeat. Okay, this is makes sense. Yeah I was. Is it like? Isn't it still like? So every single component has the ability to respond to a message. Right. This is kind of like the backbone implementation that every component has. So for ping echo you just use this already existing implementation in in your components to send the message and then listen to the response for the heartbeat. Every component has to have this kind of like internal timer that they activate with their like every like five hertz or whatever. They have to send this heartbeat message. Um, so this has to be implemented and activated in every single component. We've distributed the responsibility of implementing this to all of the components that are part of our network. Okay? Yeah. Where and I. Oh. Yeah. So you may look if in both cases, if you don't receive your echo or you don't receive your heartbeat, you may want to maybe listen for a longer or you want to see it, send a new ping. Maybe you want to retry somehow. Um, I think those those are considerations you would need to make it in both situations. I'm not aware of anybody who uses like primarily a heartbeat, but then defaults to a ping echo when the heartbeat has has not happened. I, I'm not aware of any hybrid like that but but having like retry or giving them maybe a little bit longer that that that does sometimes happen you know. Okay. Let us look at this problem. How do I avoid expensive re acquisition of a resource. So we have a resource that is very hard to compute. It takes a lot of compute to compute it. But it's requested many many times. So we have a resource user and a resource provider and a resource uh and this resource calculating this is quite expensive. Any ideas and how we could make this faster. Yes. Yes. Caching. So caching is another architectural tactic, um, that you've probably, uh, heard before, uh, in many situations. So yeah. So you kind of temporarily store local copy. Uh, so whenever you are encountering that situation and then thinking about caching is important, and then there are some design decisions you want to make on like a transparent cache that is, um, uh, invisible to the resource user or, uh, you want to have a cache that is directly used by the resource user. So in this example, the resource user would first look in the cache. And then if it's not in the cache what you use the resource provider, but in the transparent cache, the resource user would always make the request to the cache and never to the resource provider. But if the cache doesn't have the element, then the with the cache would, uh, communicate with the resource provided they all have kind of like slightly different trade offs. Um, um, and you can, you can, you can study them, um, in these books. Uh, so this is my favorite book source for Architecture and practice, uh, written by Lynn Beth Clements and Rick Casement. Um, big fan of lambdas. Um, uh, I've taught the design patterns course with his son. Um, I'm a big fan of lean bears. Um, I also think this book is really good. Uh, software architecture, a system of patterns. Um, I was written by, um, people working at Siemens, uh, and then design it, uh, from programmer to software architect. Uh, is a book written by, uh, from a master student in Siemens software engineering program who then became a very successful, uh, software developer and wanted to share a slightly more practitioner minded perspective. So this is a slightly more practitioner minded perspective. These two, um, maybe slightly more academic. Um, um, so yeah, you have your pick. Uh, and I think all three of them should be available in the UCLA for free with the UCLA account. Okay. Questions about tactics. Then we can move to. Back to our testability lecture. Okay. So, uh. Yeah. So we basically need to make sure that when our system is offline that it's restarted correctly. So here we are basically testing that our ping echo a heartbeat tactic implementation is uh is working correctly. And this is a controllability challenge. You want to kill the random service. This is an observability challenge. Have successfully it. And then this is an observability challenge. How are other services impacted. Right. So this this may result in a performance degradation or in this service just not working at all. And figuring this out is an observability challenge. Um. So how can we generalize this approach that, uh, Netflix is using by killing random services and then, uh, checking that they restart to, uh, other kinds of systems that are maybe not Netflix. Okay. Talk to your neighbor for 30s. You. Okay. How do we address the controllability challenges of testing reliability? You can show your processes. You can't kill your friends on, like, Russian roulette. And you think, oh. What happens if you kill him? But I think also, you know, other deviations you want to test besides just, you know, them being unavailable. I mean, that, of course, is one of the most common ones in all kinds of microservice systems. Um, but, um, there may be other kind of deviations we want to inject besides just purely unavailability. Lavinia. Right. So we want to basically, um, use kind of like a test stub that is injecting some kind of deviations. Right. So either injecting some faults by, you know, killing services or by simulating some environment change by saying, okay, now we we pretend that this component is now suddenly responding with erroneous messages or with, um, with errors as error codes instead of with, with a real response. So we want to use some test stubs to inject these deviations. Um, and then for observability, we just basically want to check that the functionality is preserved. So we have some functional assertions that the components are still working correctly. And then we have something er call a heartbeat to make sure that they are all, uh, still available. Like they recover. We can measure some some time to recovery maybe. Okay, so it makes sense. Questions about this. Oh, and, uh, if you're building a web app. Who's building a web app in that project? Almost everybody, but not everybody. If you're building a web app. Have you heard of artillery? Was heard of artillery. This is kind of like the state of the art system for reliability testing in web apps. So this is basically doing what what Chaos Monkey is doing. This is randomly, uh, killing your services or it's overwhelming your, your web app with a gazillion requests. Um, and, uh, you may want to you may want to experiment with this a little bit. So if you are like, uh, almost done with your project and you have a little bit more time and you want to experiment with some real world reliability testing before you graduate, I would recommend you to do that. That's going to look really nice on your, uh, uh, on your, um, experience list, when you will have to justify your existence somehow, uh, to somebody. Um. Um. Okay. About performance. If you want to specify performance requirements. Uh, we do this by, uh, creating the performance, the quality ready scenario. So performance, we don't want to have a quality requirement. That's just saying our system should be fast, but we want to say what specific kind of response time should be fast. So we describe what kind of, uh, event should arrive and then what the system response should be. And then the average minimum or maximum latency or throughput or uh, or deadlines or what's the difference between latency and throughput? Can anybody tell me what the difference between latency and throughput history wrong is like? For executing one single instruction? Exactly. Yes. Throughput is like being a given amount of time. Like how many instructions could be. That's right. That's right. So they're not the same. They're both performance properties, but they are not the same. In some cases. We want to have high throughput. We want to handle as many requests as possible. But users may be able to wait for response maybe a little bit longer. But in some cases, it's very important that our users receive a response in a given amount of time. But maybe we don't necessarily care about throughput as much. So these are separate kinds of quality attributes that you need to optimize for somewhat separately. So what would you guess? How does Netflix test the performance properties? So they have these components that should all have some kind of performance properties. What would you guess? How am I taking that? Well. Okay. Yeah. Okay. That was not the handout. Slovenia. You don't know what it's like. You don't want any of your clients to. Okay, so, um, how do they test the software like controllability and observability perspective. How do they control for situations where performance may be relevant and how do they observe or measure, uh, the performance of the system in these situations? Right? Right. So they may want to test. How does Netflix look like for a user that has, uh, a slightly longer, uh, like network latency or has a slightly longer, uh, system? Or they want to just test how does the service work if the video encoding service somehow slows down because there are so many requests to that service? Uh, so yeah, what they do is they basically inject some latency into components. They call this latency monkey. Uh, it's one of so they, they created this whole set of tools called the Simian Army, uh, that injects these kind of like, uh, latencies and bugs and kills processes. Um, they're not really well maintained anymore, but the concept still exists in all of the modern tools as well. So they inject some latencies in components. They may also inject some components into the connector. So they want to they may want to slow down the connector a little bit to see how this impacts performance. And then they check timeouts and retries of uh the component. So these are controllability challenges. So inject some some um situations that may replicate a situation in which they would observe the behavior. And then they, uh, allow they are testing infrastructure to observe how the system is performing, um, in these, uh, specific situations. Okay, so now we want a test performance, not of, uh, a Netflix system, but of any other kind of system. Let's say we want to test the performance of, um, uh, of our robot, or we want to test the performance, um, of our medical device. How can we generalize these insights to other kinds of domains? Talk to your neighbor. See? Nobody has an answer. We're going to wait for you a question. So, like. Yes. Yeah, that's kind of what you're doing, right? You want to kind of say, how does an overall response time slow down if for one specific component, we kind of slow down the specific component? Okay. Any ideas. So we have again controllability challenges and observability challenges and how we're going to address that. Yes. What's a name by the way Lou. What you need to do is maybe like take an action and see how long it takes or whatever is, or put in some input and see how long it takes for the action. Right? Yeah. So you you have some, um, part of your system that is, uh, uh, simulating this environment. Why? I like again some kind of, like, test step or by injecting a request. So this can either be like, a direct input or that could be a test stub that is, uh, injecting an indirect input, because maybe you want to slow down, uh, and, uh, you want to test how the system responds to an indirect input, uh, or you have a test stub that injects a latency, um, into an already existing component. So you can basically just create a kind of stub that is just injecting some latency and then call a real component. Right. This is kind of how you could simulate some some latency by having a component that just wait a minute and then like a nanosecond, and then it's, uh, sending the request to another component. Um, and then you can stress test it so you can create a really, really high load situation. So this is what artillery is doing, is that you basically, uh, just bombard the system with as many requests, uh, as you can, and then you measure execution times. So for example, you can use some test spice where you then log, um, uh, how long your execution takes, or you can identify bottlenecks. But, um, of course, testing performance is with these approaches always comes with a very large threat to validity. What may be the threat to validity here? Yes. That could be right. So maybe we've not been able to simulate all of the different situations that we would like to test. But there's another threat to validity here. Okay, I think so. We sometimes call this a Heisenberg. When you observe a bug and they may disappear. Uh, also in this situation, if you, um, if you change the behavior of your components, they may suddenly behave differently. So you inject kind of like additional latency on top of the latencies that you would like to introduce. So your results may not necessarily generalize to 100% if you use your tests, but they also take up some time. And then this time may actually, in some situations, positively impact the system, because maybe then this has reached a threshold by which the system is then deploying more services, for example. So so these are all kind of imperfect. But you know the best we can do kind of situations. Okay. Questions on testing performance? Yeah. I want to clarify why stress test was. Hmm. Oh I see. Is this? This may be, uh, a question that would be easier to answer if I would have defined quality attributes of the six part quality and good framework, which I have not done. Um, there are parts of quality Hollywood scenarios. Um, and the CMU students define that. I don't make you define one of them as the environment in which the, uh, in which the, uh, quality should hold. Uh, and then we usually say this should be in a normal load situation or in a high load situation. Uh, it's still a performance quality attribute. We are just saying that this, uh, this quantity should also exist either just in a normal load situation or also in a high load situation. Uh, so we just modify the, the operational environment in which the attribute should hold. Um. Maybe I should introduce a six part qualitative framework next time I'm teaching. Um. Other questions. Okay, then let's talk about security. So you specify security requirements by, uh, describing the functionality that should be preserved. And then you add a type of attack. So you say, uh, for example. Um, um. Somebody is attacking your database, and then you measure how the system responds to the attack, whether the attackers prevented, uh, how long it takes for the system to detect the attack and then potentially repel from the attack. Um, so, again, security property is not just our system is secure. Uh, security property specifies the kind of attack they should be, um, uh, handled and how the system should behave in response to this attack. Um, how can we. Control for these scenarios and measure, uh, of observe the measure. Okay. Again. So how do we deal with controllability and observability of security properties? Talk to your neighbor. Okay. Any ideas? Okay. We're not going to have to wait for somebody else to have to wait for somebody else. Yes. Melody. Mm. Give it to a different team. We can give it to a different team to attack it. So. Yes, that that is, that is kind of. So we want to simulate the attack. Right. That's kind of the it we want to simulate the attack. Whether that is like a, like a team of security engineers or whether that is a kind of automated attack. Um, so something that people are doing nowadays is that they, they basically asked AI agent to try to attack systems. Right? Um, uh, they basically try to somehow control for, uh, uh, attacks by injecting malicious input or some unauthorized requests, something that simulates a real attacker to the best degree that we can simulate. And then we observe whether the functionality is preserved, that we measure, whether whether we've detected it or we measure, uh, whether the system is repairing from the attack or, or, uh, preventing the attack from propagating to other components, for example. Um, so this one is the one that's maybe, uh, a bit harder to automate, right? Because the issue of security is that when you can think of a specific attack, it's probably already outdated. Right. So you always have to think about new kinds of attacks, which is why I think using AI agents for this actually pretty good idea. Uh, I think this is, uh. Um. Nice way to do this. Um. And, um. Though security, availability. For availability, we want to again specify the specific functionality that should be available. A system may offer a lot of different features, but some of them may have higher availability requirements than other systems as some other features. So you want to specify which functionality should be available, and then the operating conditions under which they should have this kind of availability. And then you describe the percentage of uptime or the time to repair or the time to detect and recover from a partial unavailability. Um. Yeah, this this may sound very similar to reliability here, but here we are basically just. So the measure is kind of a little bit different right. So the measure is the percentage of uptime the time to repair and the time to detect and recover from a partial unavailability. Um how could we. Test for availability without waiting for a really, really, really, really, really, really long time. So if we say that our system should have an availability of 99.999%, that basically I don't want to do the math in my head. But assuming we want to say that over one year, the system should only have an outage time of ten hours. Do we want to wait one year to know whether our system has this kind of availability? That seems kind of not so cool, right? So what could we do instead? David or then Daniel, I was confused. David. Okay, I. Like. Any kind of source like. But you want, you want. You want to kind of like, test the limits, right? So you want to basically, uh, create situations that would usually happen very rarely. Um, and, um, uh, and then you want to kind of extrapolate from how often these rare events would usually happen in the real in the real world. Right. So you can, um, yeah, create a really high load situation or you can inject some faults and then you can kind of reason about them from the probability of how often they occur. Uh, and then you check whether the components are responsive again ping echo. And then you can extrapolate from the data points. Uh, you've observed. Um, yeah. This this one is really, really hard. So this is why, um, uh, you don't really necessarily it's not easy to get in the like big leagues of, uh, Azure and Google Cloud and, um, and enable us, um, for, for other companies because of these companies are so mature that they have developed the reputation of having a specific availability, um, that people can kind of trust the, their service level agreements. And then if you want to kind of get into this league, you have to kind of, you know, um, uh, make people trust you. And this, this is hard because availability is much harder to test, uh, than other quality attributes. Mhm. Okay. So, um, your customer, uh, usually if if your customer is like a business customer, they will usually, uh, want to know about this. So let's say your business customized let's say UCLA and UCLA users Bruin learn. And UCLA is like well we don't want Bruin learn to be unavailable every day. Uh, but we want Bruin learn to be available so that I guess maybe like one day in the quarter, Bruin Learn is unavailable. Maybe our students can deal with that. But if it's more than one day that that is kind of really bad. So our mean time to repair should be at least 24 hours, because 24 hours, maybe instructors and students are able to kind of go without Bruin learn for 24 hours, but once it's longer than 24 hours, then you really disrupt the, uh, the teaching and the learning. Then students can really work on their homework, and we can really extend deadlines by like three weeks, right? Uh, so whenever you have some kind of business use case, uh, you think about how much deviation can the client, um, uh, tolerate, uh, without them being, uh, inconvenienced too much. And then this is usually the client is asking for exactly that, and the client is saying, I need a service. And that, uh, guarantees us that the mean time to repair is, uh, as 24 hours, a one hour or 10s or whatever. Um, and then, um, if you are a provider of these services, then you only get the customers that, you know, a happy with, uh, with the guarantees that you can provide or you can have like different tiers. You can say, I provide a 99.99999%, uh, availability, but then I'm going to charge you like, a thousand times as much as I'm charging somebody who who is happy with lower unavailability. And then when I have partial unavailability, well, then I prefer my my higher paying customers. And then I can kind of dynamically and make my lower paying customers experience unavailability so that my higher paying customers can get that service. So this is kind of like how this would happen in practice. Other questions. Okay, uh, then let's think about how we can increase our test coverage. So, uh, the issue with test coverage is that we always have to find the balance between testing effort and confidence, right? The more tests, the right, uh, the more effort we have to put into writing these tests and executing these tests. Uh, so we want to make sure that we test critical functionality first and that we have system integration tests. But we also want a balance of confidence. Right. So if we only have a test coverage of 50%, well, that's basically nothing right. Now I have test code of 50. That's basically nothing, right. Nobody nobody writes home about 50% test coverage. Um, so you want to think about what are the complex parts that need more tests and how much confidence is required for you to have more assertions rather than covering, uh, more lines of code? Um, that's kind of the mutation gap that we talked about in the earlier lecture. Why and when may we need unit tests? So unit tests are kind of like a, like somewhat bad on this trade off, right? They don't give us as much confidence for the lines of code we write, because they just execute a smaller portion of the code. So why wait? Why and when do we need unit tests? If our system integration tests have a much better tradeoff between testing effort and confidence. Why do we even write unit tests? Yes you have. Which part is valid. That's right. So if you have a system or integration test, it's harder for you to actually find the particular fault. You observe the failure, but it's hard for you to. What's the difference between fault error and failure? You talked about this. For their own failure. No. Nobody. Okay, then I guess we have not taught it. So the fault is the location in the line in the code. That is the bug. The error is executing this line when it becomes an incorrect state. And then the failure is an error that propagates to the system boundary. Uh, so we can prevent an error from propagating using fault tolerant mechanisms that detect an error and then respond to the error by using different mechanisms. Um, and um, uh, yeah. So the failure is, uh, is the system boundary, the user sees it or the, the, the data is stored in the wrong place, and a fault is the location and the line in the code. Oh, I think we forgot to take a break. Let's take a quick break of two minutes. And then we're going to brainstorm some ideas on how to increase test coverage. I. Okay. Uh, since the question just came up at both the presentations, yes, we do expect everybody to, uh, participate in the presentation. Um, I think, uh, the. The edge case that we defined. We said, if you somehow really can't make it, you can maybe prerecorded with the permission of your team members. So if your team members are fine with you pre-recording parts of your presentation, but we don't really want we don't really want people who are just saying, oh, I don't want to be there. And then I'm going to let all of my other teammates do this, and I'm just going to be be gone. Uh, those are situations where we then may or may consider there's less contribution than the other team members. Um, unless, you know, the other team members are like, okay, we're going to be fine. We don't want our team member to be deducted points for recording, and then we have to play it back so that that can be an excuse that we accept. Um. Okay, but back to our lecture. Um. Um. Let's think about this problem. Um. Specifying many input output relationships is very costly. So we think about a situation where it's just incredibly hard for us to come up with what we call a test oracle. So the test oracle is the mapping of input to expected output. And there's going to be a lot of situations where coming up with a test input output Oracle is really hard for image recognition. It's going to be really hard to say. This is the input for which we want to expect this particular output. Um, also, if you implement a really complex mathematical algorithm, let's say you want to you want to um, uh, figure out what, uh, all of the digits of pi, right? It's going to be really hard for you to have a test that checks whether you found all of the digits of pi. Um. So for this general problem, um. Um, and we have a good foundation of. So I was describing a slightly different problem. I was describing a slightly different problem okay. Specifying many input output relationships is costly, but we have a good foundation of traditional tests. So the problem here is not necessarily oh okay. Let me update this. Um, the problem here is not the input output relationships as cost. I guess it is. I guess it is. I guess it is. I guess it is. Okay. Anyways, um, so we want to we want to, you know, increase our coverage a lot. We want to have really, really high coverage. We already have quite a lot of tests, but it's going to be really hard for us to figure out all of the particular, you know, input output relationships. Um, are there any ideas how we could navigate this trade off? Uh, in a practical, in a practically minded set where we are like, okay, we've increased our confidence without linearly also scaling with, uh, specifying a gazillion input output relationships. But we have good tests already. So this is important. We have let's say we have put a lot of pre and post conditions in our code. We have a lot of assertions in our code. We just want to basically increase the coverage of those already existing tests. What could we do. What could we do? Yes. Well, maybe instead of building like a. Specify every input output. A certain set of relationships. You can assert some relationships. That's a good idea. We're going to we're going to hold that idea, and then we're going to come back to that idea on the next slide. Um. Any other ideas? How could we generate a gazillion inputs for a system? Well, our relationships are already kind of tested somewhat. Well, how can we, like, generate a gazillion inputs? Not just a million, not just a thousand. We want to generate a zillion inputs. Any ideas? Yeah. Uh. Mhm. Not not defined. I think that that goes into metamorphic testing. I should maybe change the order of these. Um, but that idea makes a lot of sense. Um, okay, let's let's maybe make this a little bit more concrete. Let's think about we have a web interface. We have a web interface, and we have pretty good tests. But our users, you know, they could use the the web interface in any particular way. Right. We don't want to like, write a gazillion playwright tests. Let's say the user clicks on this button and then the user clicks on that button and the user clicks on this button. Like, this is going to be so tedious, right? Like clicking on all of these buttons, like writing all of the scenarios, we can only like think of maybe ten different scenarios until we get tired and we're like, we just want to, like, not do that anymore. So how could we just, uh, fix that issue? Yes. Exactly. We call this monkey testing. Monkey testing. This is a professional term, monkey testing. So the the metaphor here is basically that instead of a real human who knows what they are doing, you just randomly generate some user inputs that might come from a monkey. You just put a monkey in front of your application and let the monkey just do random things. Right. You don't want to be biased by your mental model of what the user should do. You want to just test all kinds of completely weird user inputs. Um, so you want to just randomly trigger any kind of possible system events you want to sample from the whole input space. You want to try to break the system, avoid repetitions, and then you just check for crashes, or you check for the assertions being preserved in your in your application. This is why it's really, really good if you put a lot of assertions in your code. Because if you put a lot of assertions in your code, you just have to randomly generate inputs and then you have really, really high test coverage already. Um. Um, who puts assertions in their code. Top. Great. So, do you like chocolate? Oh, yes. I bought some chocolate today, so I thought maybe I'd ask. Um. Okay. Um. Yeah. So you want to. You want to. So. When I was an undergrad, and I took a software engineering class where my professor said, is the quality of your code is measured by the density of assertions in your code, which is, of course not the only way how you measure software quality, but it's a somewhat decent way for you to know how much you can trust the code, because it's super easy to do this. And then there's an entire research area on we'll call this fuzzing. Fuzzing is basically doing this not on a UI level. So the UI level we call this monkey testing. And when it's when it's not monkey UI events, when it's any kind of input, then we call this fuzzing. Okay, but why can't we only just have monkey test? Monkey test? So good. That can be automatically, uh, the monkey test for any web framework. For any mobile framework. Right. Can we just say, okay, we use monkey tests and then. Well done. We're done. Yeah. Exactly, exactly. So sometimes you want to have like an actual input output test. You want to make sure that your system is behaving correctly, not just in the sense that it crashes and that it preserves our pre and post conditions variance, but it's also actually calculating the right number. For example. Okay. And yeah, we talked about, uh. Um, mathematical relationships between the two. Um, and the testing approach for this is called metamorphic testing. So metamorphic testing is basically, uh, similar in that sense that it generates random inputs for our component under test sampling from the whole input space. Um, but then we don't just check for crashes and the assertions in our code. We specify some essential properties that we know should hold true for all inputs on a system level, not on a uh, per, uh, component level. So, for example, if we create a math app, we know that's what we learned in our discrete. Now this is not discrete math. What is this? It's just high school math. Uh, uh, what we learned in our high school math that sine of pi minus x is always the same as sine of x. So even if we don't really know what sine of 3.51 us. Uh, we don't want to write like a Castilian test like this. We want to write like a couple of those, but then we want to increase our coverage to make sure that it also works for really, really large numbers. Really, really small numbers for zero. Right. Uh, and then we can just specify this metamorphic relationship, uh, and then we feed it with all kinds of x. And then we, we just make sure that this is true for every single x that we feed in our system. Um, when you have a finance app, um, this is maybe a property more of the tax code than of the app. But if this is a property that exists in your tax code, then you want to make sure that it's also true in your tax app that the tax for a particular level of income always is smaller than the income, plus $1,000. Um, right. The more income you have, the more tax you pay. You want to put this kind of mathematical relationship in your tests, if that is, uh, true for the tax code of the jurisdiction for which you are calculating this, um. By the way, this may also not necessarily be true for all ranges. So you may, for example, say that if you are below an income of, um, let's say $20,000 a year, you don't pay any tax, right? Then this would not necessarily hold. So you may want to specify some, some rangers that um, uh, or you may want to specify that this also only works for like non-negative values. Maybe if you have negative income you don't pay any tax no matter how negative your income is. Whatever. Um, but um, you also can say something like, uh, if you have a function that translates USD to euro and you have another function that translates euro to USD, even if you don't necessarily want to specify the, the, um, uh, specific number that translates this, uh, because this may change at any point in time. Uh, you may want to make sure that for one particular point in time, if you translate it back and forth, that you have the same number again, um, if you have object recognition, you want to make sure that, uh, whatever image you recognize when you add some minor noise to it, you still recognize, uh, that image, um, or for interactive applications, you want to say that a user changes a number in the table. Maybe you don't necessarily want to. You don't know the Oracle, you don't know what the expected number is, but you just know that some numbers in the view should change. Or for an online shop, if you filter by a price range, our store ID returns a subset of the previous lists, um, that were not filled out by stores or by by rating. If for some reason it's really hard for you to come up with a real oracle so you can come up with these mathematical relationships for basically any kind of domain. Let's think about mathematical relationships for web apps. Describe mathematical relationships that might be observed in Netflix. Talk to your neighbor. Hope you've all used Netflix or a similar streaming service at some point in your life. You may be familiar with relationships that. Any idea of a mathematic method mathematical relationship they should hold for any kind of input. Whatever your input is. Yes. Watson? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Like scrolling left and right. Work and scroll at different. Uh. You might have like a cap that you want to always be on. Uh huh. Of course, you can only scroll at light speed, right? That's what, um, uh, Albert Einstein told us. Um, right. Yeah. So you may want you want to have, like, a cap on this. Uh, what would be the the mathematical relationship there? Plus some. Okay, that makes sense. That makes sense. Another metamorphic relationship you may think of. Yep. What's the name? Meghan? Yes. That episode account should always be, um. Incremented after they watch the episodes and do like a. Until you finish the last one. Right. So you have you have some range that you specified there that makes sense. That makes sense. Uh, yeah. So you can, for example, uh, have a mathematical relationship. Again, this is this is where you then need your kind of domain understanding and like requirements, understanding of your system, whether this is a, um, uh, a property of your system. That kind of depends on your implementation. But you may, uh, pose the property the two searches for films with the same query should return the same results regardless of the user profile, but the order may vary. So this could be a property you could pose, but that may potentially very. If you have, let's say like some kind of age restrictions, maybe you have age restrictions and you don't want to preserve this property. Um, but this is a property you may want to think about or after a user, uh, completed watching a movie, it should not appear in the recommendations anymore. Right? This may be, uh, a property you may want to check. It may also not be a property you want to check. Depending on whether you believe that your users may want to rewatch something. Um, I think that this this one is not true for Netflix. I think I've, I've recommended, uh, I've seen recommendations of things I've already seen, but, um, yeah, you can think of these, uh, properties. And again, this is, this is why, um, software engineering is not just about, uh, getting things implemented. It's also about knowing what you are implementing, why you're implementing it, and then making sure that your quality assurance process is adjusted accordingly. Um, why can't we only have metamorphic metamorphic tests? I guess that one is probably easy because we answered a similar question already, so I'm not relying on the first three rows. Saint. They might change on bail based on the input. And, uh, we are kind of like. The shortcut if you're taking a shortcut through our Oracle. Right. So maybe, uh, let's say our, our mathematical relationship of pi. Maybe let's say our our a sign. Our sign is always off by one. Right? If our sign is always off by one, we wouldn't we wouldn't catch this bug. Our signs are always off by one. Well, if our text is always off by. $100 or so. Object recognition is just always is never recognizing anything. Or if our euro USD to Euro and they're all just zero, right? Like if they are all behaving incorrectly but still preserve the relationship, you wouldn't catch these bugs. Okay. Of course. Then there's also test driven development. So you've already learned about test driven development. So if you follow test driven development you will generally have incredibly high test coverage. That's very close to 100% on whatever test adequacy criterion you're using. It will definitely have 100% statement coverage. It will usually have 100% branch coverage, and it will also often have 100% path coverage. So if you follow TDD, you just don't write a line of production code without having a test, right? That's the rule. So you will generally have very high, um, test coverage. So if you think about how we tailor our testing design to different domains, um, I think we are probably kind of running out of time. And seven minutes ago. Let me see if I can do to web apps first. So what are common challenges of controllability and observability? Since you're all building web apps? This one's going to be easy. Well. Okay. Any anyone else? I think I've not had a lot of interactions here. I only had Lou. Um. Who else? Uh, has experience with web apps and. Yeah. Okay. Gosh. I think you're always going to struggle to predict how the user will behave, even if the designer. It's always like the wild card. Right. So you want you want to somehow get all of the user interaction into your system. That can be quite hard because the user has a lot of different ways of interacting. And then observability. Well, you have um, like you have an HTML page that's just kind of generally hard to to have assertions on because your output is not in the format. That is easy going to it's going to be easy for you to, to access. So you have a lot of you need to simulate user inputs, clicking buttons, entering text, waiting for the page to load. Right. That that can be a challenge. Uh, and then you need to verify output somewhere on the page, but it may be anywhere on the page, right? If you are overfitting to FBA, let's say in those pixels, then you can't really change your CSS. You can change your UI. That's going to be a bit of an issue. So, um. Yeah. These are the challenges you are facing. Um huh. I second. Did I somehow. Uh, I just the order is just not correct. Okay. Who has heard of playwright before? Who's using playwright in the project hall. I hope you're not building a web, because if you're building a web app and you know about playwright, you should be using playwright because playwright is the testing framework for web apps. Uh, so playwright helps you with exactly these challenges. Um, you still have a week to implement your tests. So, uh, I would recommend you to look at playwright and then use it and maybe even combine it with artillery. And it combines very well with artillery. Um, so you have your controllability by being able to navigate to a page. So you can say you want to go to this, uh, URL and then you can, uh, query inputs by, let's say by row or by ID. Um, um, and then you can enter some text. So you can say you want to fill an example value into the text box, and then you want to get the submit link. So you get it by role or the link with the name submit. And then now you're controlling the system to click the link right. So this is how you, uh, and how you simulate user interactions by saying you want to fill text into the text box, you click the link. Um, and then your assertions are going to be either on visibility. So then you want to, uh, expect the page. Uh, to have a visible text welcome. Sometimes text on HTML pages is invisible. You want to hide it with JavaScript. You want to say, okay, no, this one should not just be on the page. It should actually also be visible. Um, and then you can also have some assertions that your locator, uh, has some text, has some substring, has some messages as number of messages, for example. Um, so this is how you can then add your assertions on, on your web pages. And I actually have a tutorial on how to implement, um, test with playwright, uh, in the e-book. Uh, so if you I have not used playwright yet, um, I actually recommend you to maybe go through the playwright tutorial and then, um. See if you can implement this in your project because, uh, whenever you're you're dealing with web apps in any, you know, practical, real world scenario, knowing how playwright works will be super useful. Because even if you're not using the actual playwright because you're working at a, um, and like a fan company that has their own version that's internally better or somehow more tailored, it will use very, very similar interaction mechanisms. So the concept of playwright generally kind of transfer to all of the other frameworks as well. So I highly recommend checking out playwright. Uh, and yeah, we have a tutorial, um, on this e-book. And. I think we're almost done. Okay, let's let's finish at finish this lecture and then, um. Uh, so when you, uh. Think about the Mars helicopter. You have some reliability, some performance properties. Do you want to test? I think we've talked about this a little bit in a previous lecture, that you have different atmosphere on Mars, that you have different gravity on Mars. And what they do is they actually put the helicopter in a pressure chamber, uh, where they take out the atmosphere, and then they, uh, put the helicopter on a, uh, on a spring, um, that is taking off some of its gravity, um, and, uh, and then they observe it in this specific environment. So controllability challenges are going to be really, really difficult whenever you're building these kinds of space systems. Um, but yeah, the helicopter can actually fly somehow. I think this video didn't really work. I'm sure why it doesn't work, but, um, uh, yeah. So they actually tested the real helicopter in this, in this pressure chamber. And then it did, to some degree translate to Mars as well. Not 100%. Um. But when you've built testing robotic systems, you want to simulate the kind of bugs. Um, but that's often not enough, because, uh, you have this kind of simulation gap where, um, in a real in a simulation where you simulate, uh, let's say, video input, you may not necessarily be able to, um, translate this to the real world. A friend of mine who is moving to LA next year, uh, has done his PhD thesis on this. And, um, yes, you have really, really large space of potential inputs, but it can be any kind of image, any kind of video, any kind of sensor input. Um, so testing robotic systems is incredibly challenging. Um, and, um, yeah. So it's generally also challenging to do this kind of stuff about the computer vision components. Um, but this is generally a good idea. So sometimes what you want to do is you want to record the actual events you've seen in the real world into action, and then you want to replay these events. So in the robot operating system, they have uh, um, back files back. That's what they're called, where you record, uh, events and then you play them back and then you have somewhat more minimal testing effort, but then you can only, uh, test interactions that are in this space of events that you've, you've recorded or that your recording can, can predict. Um, so this is going to be really difficult. Usually you have like a multi-tiered system that you have some simulation test and you have some real world tests. And then before you deploy it, um, you often, um, you know, need to run it in the real world. And for the Koopman, um, as a distinguished professor at CMU who his whole career has been on testing robotic systems. Uh, he loves to talk about all of the different bugs that happen in robotic systems because they're so hard to test. For example, Volvo and Scandinavian Company A developed a self-driving car that was designed to work in Nordic situations where they could assume that all of the animals and may run in front of the car like a moose or a deer, uh, is standing on the ground. So this was an assumption they've baked into the system. And then it was deployed in Australia, where the assumption and that animals are always touching the ground and not true. And then it ran into some kangaroos. Um, and testing self-driving cars is incredibly difficult because if you use the same, uh, reliability and safety standards that you use for similar systems, you would have to drive literally every single road on the Earth eight times, uh, before you deploy a new version of your system. And obviously that is not really feasible. Uh, so this is why, um, it is quite challenging to, to test these kind of robotic systems. Testing mobile apps. Monkey testing A super, super popular Android iOS. They all have their own monkey testing frameworks. Um, when you deal with iOS, you have the advantage that almost all of the devices are very, very similar. But once you're dealing with Android, your controllability challenges are also what kind of hardware are you deployed on? So building Android apps is much harder than building iOS apps, uh, because you have a different kind of GPU. They're very different kind of sensors. You have very different kind of configurations of the system. So this is making it harder for you to build Android apps and to test Android apps. Uh, and what they do is they have these like real devices in the cloud where you can uh, with like a lot of different configurations, so you can upload your APK, and then it's actually tested on like a thousand different device configurations on real devices. It's actually kind of crazy when you think about it, but, uh, they're usually quite expensive test frameworks. Um, but yeah, Google is testing a cloud testing. Does this, um, okay. And uh, surprise, surprise, if you build systems that are easily testable, they're also easily changeable because, um, all of the design principles that lead you to easier, testable systems are generally also reducing dependencies and generally building simpler interfaces. If it's easier for you to, um, um, change systems, that also means it's easier for you to create test doubles. Um, so yeah, high changeability leads to high testability, and high testability generally leads to higher changeability, because many good tests mean the interface is small and it's easier to use. Um, okay, we got it done. Um, yeah. Phil objects a ticket, and then I'm gonna see you on Tuesday. Yes. Oh, code. Um. That's a good question. Oh, ingenuity. Ingenuity. That's the name of the most helicopter.