[Auto-generated transcript. Edits may have been applied for clarity.] Okay. Okay. This is working. Wonderful. Um. So we've we've released homework one yesterday. Um, I would recommend you to work on this, like today. Uh, because everything in the, uh, uh, homework we have already, you know, covered in the lectures. Um, and you want to have some time to work on the, uh, project assignment. And then we will also release very soon. Um, um, so I recommend you to, to get the homework over with, as you know, fast as you can so that you then have time to work on project. That that's my recommendation. Um, why is this the converting? Can I oh, yes, I can open a new zoom HDMI. Okay. And see if this is working. Can I start a new record while. This is still converting 35 L um, seems like this does work. Okay. In my opinion, this is my personal opinion. Today's topic is the most important topic in software engineering. So this is why. This is why it's going to be its own lecture. So some courses in software engineering do this just as like a ten minute side. Um, you know, sides topic. Um, I think it has to be its own topic. And Professor Kim agrees. So this is why we give one entire lecture on information. Hiding the information. Hiding principle. Um. Software engineering has been in a crisis since the mid 1960s. Uh, back in the day, during the Apollo mission, Margaret Hamilton, she was in charge of. She was basically the lead software engineer of the Apollo mission. She realized that the complexity of the software actually exceeded the complexity of the hardware of the mission by quite a bit. And this is this is the source code of the Apollo mission printed out on piece of paper. So this is Margaret Hamilton standing right next to her work. Um, and she coined the term software engineering to say we now have a new engineering discipline that is different from the other engineering disciplines. We've studied in mechanical engineering, electrical engineering. Um, and she said the software was more complex than the hardware for the manned missions. Um, and after this, uh, all countries in NATO. So in a military alliance, they met, uh, in a small town somewhere in Bavaria in Germany to talk about this huge software crisis. That software was never produced on time, that it never meet specifications, and it always exceeds its estimated cost. And the funny thing about this is that this is from the original NATO conference documents from 1968. Uh, and it's kind of true today, to some degree, it's the kind of truth to some degree. So all of the NATO countries realized that this is a an existential threat to society. That software is so complex and that we are not building software the right way. And, uh, yeah, this this became, uh, the software crisis. And when you look at the people who attended this NATO conference, you might remember quite a few Turing Award winners. Edgar Dykstra, um, actually, my academic great grandpa, uh, Alan Perlis, the first award winner in history, Tony Hoare, Nicholas Vert, Peter Noah, Brian Randall, they all won the Turing Award. They all came together and talked about this problem of how can we make sure that we get out of this crisis, that software somehow kind of starts working and we kind of build it the right way. And this is actually a really, really challenging question because, uh, software still, you know, it has not gotten less complex. So when you look at software back then, it was that size, right? And now it has actually still grown in complexity. When you look at the million lines of code in the system. So in the Apollo mission, it was barely like 1 million lines of code. It was, I think like 170,000 ish. Um. Uh, 145,000 lines of code. Um, and, um, then the space shuttle was around half a million lines of code. The, uh, F-22 fighter jet, uh, ended up being, uh, 1.7 million lines. The Boeing 787 Dreamliner. You've probably flown on this plane at some point in your life. That is around 6.5 million lines of code. And then you look at a modern car. A modern car actually has around 100 to 150 million lines of code. That's like three orders of magnitude larger. Then when the software crisis initially, you know, uh, appeared on the agenda of NATO conferences. Um. And, uh, when you look at us. How do you think we are able to build systems of such insane size and complexity? How can we do this? Like, not a single person could understand that system. How can we build these kinds of systems? Talk to your neighbor. I think that. They can discuss. Still. I'm. Make sure you always do this. Okay. What are your thoughts? How can we do this? How can we built these insanely complex systems? Yes. So like a dolphin. Better practices. Uh, writing, like large systems. You know, we talked about this. These layers of abstraction. These. System diagrams, making sure that all of your interfaces you know are. With each other that none of your. You know, causing some sort of circular dependency like that. We've got very good at writing software and so. And we just exponentially wrote more. Yeah. Yeah. So we built we build abstractions. So we we figured out that designing systems in a way where you can understand individual modules without looking inside other modules, is the right thing to do, right? If every single time you change a single line in the car, you have to understand all of the other 150 million lines of code, like you are never, ever gonna be able to change a single line. So you have to design your system in a way that you as a human, you as a human. Your cognitive skills are sufficient to understand each piece individually. Yes. I think that also this modularization of code. Able to work together because like we are able to work separately. But. Exactly. So modularization has the other advantage that you can. Build these modules individually so everybody can pick their own module that they work on. And then they can individually work on them together. Um, so the goal should be to design systems in a way that your brain can still understand the individual pieces. Because when you look at this. Right. So the complexity of systems has grown exponentially. Like how much has our IQ been growing since the 1960s? Like humans, IQ has not been growing at all. Like it's basically flat. Um, so, like, we now have to create best practices and techniques and abstractions, modeling techniques, analysis techniques that help us deal with more complex systems. And it's actually quite amazing. This is this is why software engineering is a really interesting research area, because the research area of software engineering is basically about how can we provide these tools. But in this class we're going to teach you the practice. And when you look at the practice you see that, for example, the Linux kernel, uh has a really interesting growth rate. So you see that for a while there for a while that has actually grown at a curve that looks quite exponential, but then it has flattened out. And now it's kind of growing more at the linear curve than an exponential growth. So why did the Linux kernel at some point slow down in its growth? Can we think of some reasons why the size of the Linux kernel has not been growing exponentially? While you know, the size of overall systems has been growing exponentially? Okay. Talking about. Any ideas why the growth might have been slowing down? Yes. Is it because there's not a lot of do like hardware? Interesting. So, so so you're basically saying, uh, like the execution of the hardware has kind of been coming the limiting factor. So we can really add more code because there's not more hardware to grow into. Is that what you're saying? Okay. That's a good idea. I've heard this idea quite a bit when I asked this question, and I would actually say that, uh, so hardware has also kind of been growing exponentially. Kind of. Have you heard of Moore's Law? Yeah. Moore's law is basically that the, uh, speed of a CPU has been doubling every three years or something like this. Um, and it has slowed down a little bit, but not necessarily around 2011. Um, also, the number of lines of code are not necessarily proportional to the execution speed that you need. So, uh, you have if you have an if statement, for example, you only execute one branch, but you have twice as much code, right. So this is about the lines of code before you execute it. Not necessarily the lines of code that need to be executed in every single execution of the system. Any other hypotheses? Yes. Maybe because. Laid out. Hmm. It's just built on that because you don't want to go into the deepest, deepest layer of, like, the basic functionalities and change those because all the rest are built upon this fundamental core. Mhm. Already developed in like as a whole system by themselves. Right. So you basically have the code, you have kind of like most of the things you need and you don't necessarily need to add like a lot more stuff because you know, back in 2011, maybe you have most of the features that would be needed are there and then just some small features need to be added. I think that that's a very reasonable hypothesis. Uh, another hypothesis is that, uh, the cost of change increases over time for most systems. Uh, and you'll see this when you work on, uh, systems for a long period of time. You're working on a system for a decade. You'll see that in the beginning, it's really easy to add new features, but then after a while, once it has grown in complexity, adding new features is incredibly hard. And that's even more true if you don't use the principles we're teaching in this lecture. And it's definitely true for, um, for AI generated software. I've done this over the weekend because some of you wanted UML to be part of the, uh, as epoch. Uh, I, I vibe coded a completely new UML to SVG renderer for the epoch, so you'll get some a UML diagram soon. The first few diagrams you add. It just works really well. And then, uh, if you add a constrain the layout algorithm, then suddenly, uh, introduces new bugs. That doesn't work. So it's true for humans, and it's also true for AI that if you increase the complexity of a system, uh, it just becomes much more, much harder to change. The reason for this is that the possible connections between additional nodes in a graph grow quadratically. So, uh, if you have four modules, then you have six potential combinations. But if you have double the number of modules, you have 28 connections that are possible. So this means that for every single new node you add, you might have to add quadratically more connections. Or at least you have to think about whether you have to add them. Um, and if you don't put abstractions in place then, uh, this is basically growing. Uh, the complexity is growing at a quadratic rate just by adding new model modules. So every single feature then is quadratically harder to add. If you don't pay attention to your abstractions. So these kinds of, uh, situations often lead to an architecture that we call the big ball of mud. The big ball of mud. That's basically the modern term of the software crisis. If you have a big ball of mud architecture, your code looks like this. It's smelly, it's hard to maintain. There's a lot of spaghetti code. There are hidden bugs everywhere. Uh, a simple change request requires touching dozens of unrelated files. The cost of change is immense. You have really low understandability. Uh, one of my friends was joining a large financial institution as a software engineer a few years ago. And that system was kind of having this big ball of mud architecture. So onboarding these systems is incredibly hard because you can't understand each module in isolation. You have to always look at all the different places. It's incredibly hard. The the mental model required to understand the system is incredibly large. Onboarding is very hard. Um, and it's also very fragile. If you forget that, you have to change a, uh, piece of code on another end of the system and you just make the change ad hoc. Then, um. Your system is just going to have a lot of bugs. Uh, and you want to definitely avoid this. Okay. Let's look at an example. Let's look at a payment system. So this is Python code. I hope you all still remember Python. Um so we have different services. We have an order service, we have a refund service and we have a wallet service. And they have uh uh, they take uh, uh, an order and a PayPal account. So here we can pay with PayPal in our own online shop with these different services. What is wrong with this code? And hint, it's not functionality. It's not functionality. Think about where could be the big ball of mud in this code. Talk to your neighbor. Okay. Any ideas? No idea. I see that we are now entering week three and everybody is already tired. Yes. If you like, if people don't authenticate, fails and all these questions feel. If PayPal fails, all functions fail. That might be the case. Um, I don't think that's the main issue here. Yes. Um, I don't know. What's wrong with this specific thing? Like how you could, like, make it wrong? You could, like, add some tweaks to the refund service. That would depend on the wallet. Huh? Interesting. Yeah, sure. Uh, okay. Let's think about a potential change request that might happen in the future. So we have the system let's assume is working perfectly right now. So all of the error handling is happening. All of the, uh, refund is happening correctly. Let's say everything is working correctly. Could we think of some change request in the future that would require us to change everything? All of these modules. All of these modules. So a web shop has these services, supports PayPal. Is it a change request and would require touching all of that? Well we basically have to go through this quadratic um issue. And we have to touch all of the modules. Yes. We like change the. Uh, yeah. That would be, uh, a change. I think that one is hard to get rid of. I think that one is hard to get rid of. I guess it does. I guess the solution that we're coming up is actually the same for both. Yeah. I think that's actually true. Okay. So he was saying if the parameters for authenticate would change, let's say PayPal's updating the API and they are like, now, uh, you have to authenticate. You now need, uh, a quantum safe, uh, crypto algorithm because quantum computers have now suddenly broken all of the existing encryption. And somehow you need like, a quantum key as well. Something like this. Um, okay. This would be a change to, uh, PayPal itself. Is there maybe a more likely or more common change that could happen that's very similar to that one? Yeah. People come to. All thinking very, very small. Very small. Okay. Let's think about what a user might want. Yes. Huh? Exactly. What if the users like. I don't want to use PayPal? I want to pay with bitcoin. Oops. Uh, if the user doesn't want to pay with PayPal but want to pay with Bitcoin or Stripe, or with new magic, PayPal, uh, pay service like WeChat or whatever. Um, so we have the decision that we use PayPal. Implement that in all of the modules. Every single module knows that we offer PayPal as a payment service. So every single time we want to add a new payment service, we have to change all of these services to all of the red highlighted lines have to change because, uh, they mention PayPal every time. PayPal is a literal as mentioned in the code, that line would have to change when we offer a Bitcoin or a stripe service. How can we improve this? How can we? Remove the dependency on PayPal from every single component that is currently on this slide. And that also solves the authenticate issue I think probably probably we'll see. We'll see if it does talk to enable. Okay. Any idea? This is tough. This is tough. Yes, I will just add another payment method where even like payment class. Where it just tells all the functions, how much money it has from an account without having to about. That's right. Okay. That's probably the last one. I didn't get mandarins yet. I probably get mandarins for Thursday. Um, because I realize that this is not the healthiest option. And students who participate a lot. Uh, I want to make them live healthy. Okay. Um. Um, yeah. So the idea was basically. So we created an abstraction for payment systems, uh, where PayPal is an instance of this. And then basically we hide all of the details of how this is implemented behind an interface. Um, and this looks like this. So instead of all of the services, including the decision that we use PayPal, we create a PayPal gateway that is instantiating. So, uh, realizing the payment gateway interface, the payment gateway interface will look like this. It basically has, um, a definitions of charge fund and create payment method. Um, and then each of the different payment gateways we implement, they have their own way to implement this, uh, behind this payment gateway interface. And then in our code we are basically just saying payment gateway dot create payment method dot refund order dot charge payment. And then we have some payment details. That is then um, uh, a data structure that contains uh information about what payment method the user has selected for this particular instance. That is then, you know, uh, helping the payment gateway to identify what specific credit card you view is or PayPal account you've used. Um, and now you don't actually have to change any of these services if you add a new payment method because there's no PayPal mentioned here. There's no stripe mentioned here. There's no Bitcoin mentioned here. Uh, so the decision that we use PayPal as a payment method that is only known by the PayPal gateway, that's the only module that knows that PayPal even exists. No other module even knows that PayPal is a payment service that exists in this world. They don't even know about it, and that's exactly how it should be. Can we generalize from this example towards a more general principle, like a set of rules that we can define for all of us in the world, so that we basically and capture this insight from this example and rules that help us make these decisions in our own future life. Okay. Talk to your neighbor to come up with some some rules or principles or best practices that help us go to a design like this. You know, I mean, don't listen to. And he knows the answer. He has read the paper. Really. Okay. Who wants to propose a set of rules or principles of best practices that leads us towards such a wonderful design? It's difficult. But there's this why we are here. Because we want to work out our brains so that we exercise our cognitive functions. And then we are ready to enter the workplace or do a PhD, your master's program or whatever. Yes. So basically. Service. Aim of getting the gateway to the service. Huh? Inside of the service, it can be anything. So things that are like hardcoded somewhere. Should not be known by other modules. So it should be like in one one module. That's a good idea. Can you maybe make this a little bit more general than that. Little bit more general than that. Who has an idea? Yes. That's very close. That's very, very close. Yeah. Oh. Unnecessary stuff anyways. Uh, yes. That's very, very close. So we basically want to identify what, uh, details that should be hidden from other modules and what, uh, things that should be part of the contract between modules. And what criteria might we use for deciding what goes into the contract and what's the detail? They should be hidden. What? What criteria is deciding this? Is it? Is it? You know, things that start with the letter A? Is it, uh, is it code? That's more than ten lines. Is it? Is it what? What should it be? What should be our criterion for for decomposing systems into modules? That's actually the title of the paper that answers this question. A criterion for decomposing systems into modules. Any idea what's the criterion we use? Yes. Independent. It's independent. What does independent mean? Um. Independent as in. All the. Okay. That gets very very close. So we have business logic. So we basically have things that are potentially likely to change. Right. So PayPal is just one particular company that I think is not actually doing very well financially at the moment. Like there is a lot, a lot of questions on, you know, whether PayPal will actually still be around and then in the near future, uh, and um, maybe like all of the AI companies like ChatGPT, maybe they will completely dominate the payment space. Maybe, uh, you will not actually have PayPal anymore because maybe my agent is going to pay for you. These are things that are potentially likely to change the way how you are. Um, um, um, dealing with payment, that is probably going to change. The user might use a different payment method. There are things in your systems that are likely to change, and you have identified these in your requirements analysis. You have identified what are things that the user knows for sure will always be true, and what are things that are maybe going to change at some point. So the design principle here, um, is the basically that okay, but let's step back into theory a little bit. So what is a module. We want to split up systems into separate modules. So a module is a self-contained piece of code that does one job uh or several kind of related job. So you can think of a module either as a function or as a class, as a directory, as a package, or as a library. So modules exist on different levels of abstraction. The smallest of functions. That's the smallest module. And then uh, you go from there. So a class contains multiple functions that are rectory contains many classes. The package contains many directories, a library contains many packages. Um, so they exist at different levels of abstractions. And then David Parnas, he uh, 20 years after the, uh, software crisis, he came up with a principle, uh, that basically said an independent work assignment can be assigned to a single engineer, and we want to pick a modularization that basically splits modules based on decisions that are likely to change or hard to make. And the modularization is basically, uh, a way how you pick your, your modules. So there are a lot of different modularization that could exist. The one that we have seen earlier was not so good. So here we have three services with these interfaces. This one before services. And this payment gateway interface. This is much cleaner. So these are two separate modularization. So methods of picking uh modules. And we want to find a good modularization A good modularization is based on a set of assumptions or things they could change. Uh and it allows this change to be localized. That's the goal. So we want to think of things that are likely to change. We want to think of these change scenarios that could occur in the future. And we want to make sure that our systems are modularized in a way that each of these changes is just localized to a small number, or ideally, just one single module. So if you then think of different design alternatives for designing a system, and you have to work on a designer quite soon. So you have to go through this process very soon. Uh, you have to pick a modularization that is basically safe against all the very high probability change scenarios. Um, yeah. So you basically want to, uh, compare different modularization. So you want to pick the one that is easier accommodating the kinds of changes that are likely to happen. Uh, this has also different advantages. So if you have picked a better modularization, uh, just as more amenable to change, it's also easier to debug because you only have to look at the code for this one module to really understand it. It's easier to test because if this module is kind of all loosely coupled, then it's it's easier to test it in isolation. And it's also just easier to understand. And if it's easier to understand by you, then it's also easier to understand by the AI coding agent that you might use on your first job. Because if the coding agent has to look at 20 different modules to make a change, it will probably forget the 20th. So David Parnas. He came up also for years, not 24 years that quickly. Uh. Smart guy. Uh, he came up with this principle. So he proposed. That one begins with a list of difficult decisions or design decisions which are likely to change. And then each module should be picked to be the, uh, to hide such a decision from others. And this is a very simple sentence, but it carries a lot of very, very deep thoughts. Uh, fun fact when David Parnas wrote this paper, he was a professor at CMU. Um, but he was not tenured. He was actually kind of fired from CMU, even though he has been one of the most influential researchers in software engineering, because back then, CMU didn't really acknowledge the fact that software engineering that you have to care about humans building the software. Who are these humans building the software like? That's not science, right? According to them back then. Um, but yeah, so he proposed this principle, and I definitely recommend you to read this paper. You definitely want to read this paper. Um, uh, students who, uh, think they understand the information hiding principle. When they read the paper, they get a much deeper understanding of what the information hiding principle really means. I really recommend you to. This is one of the few software engineering papers that I recommend every single undergraduate to read, because it's, uh, really important. So the principle breaks down a program into separate modules, and then each decision that might happen is kind of categorized as likely to change and also likely to change, and then should be independently, uh modularize into a secret that is hidden inside of a separate module. So the only assumptions that should appear in the interfaces that connect these modules should be the ones that are not likely to change. This is the interfaces kept to everything that solid that is not likely to change. And then behind the interfaces in the actual implementation, we capture things that are likely to change. I think the best way to think about information hiding in the real world is to think of power plugs out power outlets. So the power outlet, in my opinion, is the single most complexity hiding interface you will ever interact with in your entire life. It's so simple. It just, you know, I mean, it looks so simple, right? It has like three holes in it. Like just three holes. And there's so much complexity involved in the power generation that's hidden behind this interface. How do you actually produce the power? It's completely hidden. Users of this interface, they don't need to care where the power comes from. They just plug their device in. And then at some point, somebody decides where your power actually comes from. And then if you're sitting in your dorm room and you plug your, uh, device in your power outlet, you don't have to care whether that power comes from a solar panel or from a nuclear power plant, or from wind power or wherever it comes from. You don't need to worry about this, and you need to design your software specifically in this way, that every single interface you're designing is so simple that everybody looks at the interface and knows exactly how to use them. And all of the complexity they might change at some point is hidden behind this interface here. Like throughout the day, maybe the power grid is rebalancing from one power source to another. Um, so this might change during runtime, right. And you can also design your modules to, to be this way. So in software engineering you want to apply the information hiding principle and basically exactly the same way. So you want to think of isolated modules that change in independent ways. So you basically want to group together what change together. And you want to separate what changes for separate reasons. And your most important job is to identify what are these design decisions you are making in the design of your system that are likely to change? You will make a lot of design decisions, and some of them are likely to change at some point, and some others are not likely to change since the location where that is changing this I don't know. Um, anyways, uh, yeah. So the, uh, interface should you should figure out what is, uh, likely to change, and then you have to hide this behind an interface. You want to think of this basically as a module, as an iceberg, where the visible portion is just this small interface that you are showing to other developers. The interface is what the module does. And then behind the interface, hidden for nobody to know is the implementation is how the interface does it. This is hidden. So, uh, the interface is the stable contract of what the module should do. And the implementation completely hides how this is done so that it can change freely. So you can freely exchange one implementation for another, as long as the interface remains the same. That's the goal. So examples of these kind of common secrets you want to hide? Uh, data structures and data formats. Whether you use an array or a binary tree or a hash table. If you've taken 180 already, everything you've learned in 180, you have to hide behind the interface. You're not allowed to tell people all of the amazing data structures you have learned and algorithms. So how you store data on the disk. That's a good one. Uh, that one is really that sometimes really hard to, uh, to hide from the interface, but you want to make sure that your interfaces do not hide how your tables are structured. If you have a database in your system. Algorithms and implementation logic. The way how you compute, uh, how um, uh, how you calculate the, uh, um. You know the computations that your interface should do. You do not want to reveal any details about this in the interface. And this one is tricky because. From a purely syntactic interface, you usually kind of hide the algorithm. But sometimes you document in your interface where you say, I'm going to use merge sort to sort this. You don't want to do this because whenever you tell somebody, this is the algorithm I'm using. They might overfit to this, and they might use the interface in a way that assumes that you use this particular algorithm. And then the interface assumptions might break at some point. So the the tricky thing here is to identify what do you actually. Tell people about your interface. You want to document all of the important aspects, but you want to hide the actual implementation details, not just in the syntax of the interface, but also in the documentation. In your documentation. You don't want to include any of these implementation details. Um, then dependencies on libraries. If you're using, um, JavaScript, you might make a decision between Axios and Fetch. Now one is quite hard to to modularize in a single module, but you want to make sure that you hide this so that at some point you can switch it later. Whether you use MongoDB, MySQL or Super Base. The kind of database technology you're using. Uh, in 35. My students always ask me, can I use super base for the 35 L project? And I tell them, well, if there's one single module that knows that you use Super Base, you can use super base. If everybody knows they use super powers, you can't use it. And that's the principle you should be employing in your professional world as well, because database technologies will come and go. When I was young, super base wasn't even a thing. Now a lot of people use super base, so you want to make sure that only a single module knows what specific database technology you're using, so that it's easier for you to swap out. Whether you use OpenGL for rendering or another graphics library, right? So if you've taken a computer graphics class, uh, you might find this one quite hard to implement. Yes. Um, as far as. Sometimes the structure of the modules. That's right. Like, how would you use a swap out with us? Great question. Do I have a. This is the next slide. No, it's not the next slide. But it is this slide. Yeah. Look this one. Okay. So you basically want to pick a module a data storage engine module, uh, where you hide the specific database technology, the table format. And then this one has a small interface that communicates with the main system interface. So you want to basically, uh, pick one module in your system that knows about data storage. And then no other module knows about it, but it communicates with this interface with this module via an interface. So you have basically you create an abstract interface that just say, uh, that changes data or that says this is the object that now should be written in my data storage system, retrieve, um, data of that specific type. And then you may want to make sure that you don't use like actual SQL queries in your, uh, in your, uh, arguments there. Right. Uh, so you want to hide these decisions so that it's easy for you to swap out. You want to design this separate module that, uh, knows about this. This makes sense. Okay, cool. Other questions. Cool. Then we'll go to. This question. Okay. So these things. So when I have to make a decision, uh, which of these should be part of the visible contract and which of these should be a hidden secret that we're not going to tell anybody. So when you're working with a client server system, should the network protocol be stateful or stateless as this, uh, contract or, uh, detail, uh, should this be a contract detail between these two components? And should this be, uh, uh, a contract between the client. And so if I talk to a neighbor. Okay, I hope this is going to be easy. Let's see first one. So between the two modules the client and server should the decision whether the network protocol should be stateless or stateful like Http uh as a state or like Rest protocols? Uh, was this non-u.s protocols like Soap? Uh, should this be, uh, hidden detail or part of the interface? Who thinks it should be part of the interface. Okay. Who thinks there should be a hidden detail? Okay, everybody is in agreement. Yes, of course it has to be part of the contract. If the server, if the client doesn't know whether the protocol is stateful or stateless, the client doesn't know what kind of messages to send. Right? The server has to implement it and the client has to know about it. The server has to tell the client. I saw information about your previous session. You have to tell the client, otherwise there's no way to know. Okay. Now we have the network of Ponen and the database component inside the server. So between these two components, is it a hidden contract or, uh, a hidden detail or visible contract? Who thinks there should be a visible contract? So we want it to be a visible contract between client and server. Should it be a visible contract between these two? No. Nobody. Okay. Interesting. Uh, who thinks it should be a secret detail? Okay. Great. Great, great. Some people don't have opinions, but yes that's right. So we generally want this to be a, uh, a secret detail. You may generally want this to be a secret detail, because only the network component should know about the network protocol. The database component has no need to know. And if the network is, the database component has no need to know that it should be hidden from the database component. It should not know about it. Okay. Whether the server uses a relational or a no SQL database. Who thinks this should be a visible contract? Nobody who thinks there should be a hidden detail. Everybody. Everybody knows the answer. Yes. Of course. Well, then I don't have to go over this again if everybody agrees. Yeah. So we basically want to structure our software in a way kind of like this. So we have separate modules that are deal of different concerns. So we have a user interface rendering module where the graphics libraries are hidden. Um, so nobody should know what kind of graphics libraries we are using because this is only modularized. And this component. And whenever this changes, we only have to change this module. Our optimization logic is modularized in the algorithmic core. Our network communication the network protocol is hidden inside of this module. Nobody else should know about it. And then they communicate with our very, very small interfaces, right? We don't want to reveal any details in these interfaces that are not necessary. And you'll see there are basically two parts to this. Right. So there is one part to this. And uh identifying what should be your modules. And then the second one is what should be part of the interface. And the information hiding principle is about both. It tells you where you draw your module boundaries. It tells you all of the algorithmic logic should be in one module because that is likely to change and that changes together. So this particular decision should be a module. So this is basically saying everything there should be in here. Uh and then it also says these details should be hidden. And the second part is basically saying we should have small interfaces between them. So there are two parts to this. It's really important to identify the two parts, the structure of the modules and then the connections between the modules. Separate but related questions about this. Okay. Good. Another example. Okay. This one is a little bit trickier. This one is a little bit trickier. Talk to a neighbor. Yeah, I. You have to. Okay, how about the first one? Whether the server is implemented in Node.js, Java or Dart? Who thinks there should be a visible contract between the client and the server? Who thinks there should be a hidden detail? Okay, we have different opinions. Who wants to argue for the visible contract? Who wants to argue for the visible contract? A few students raise the hand. Who is brave enough to? Yes, please. Please give us your. Your arguments. Server. For that you could use like a protocol buffer or something. Scratch that out. But I guess for simplicity's sake. Okay, so the the common network, uh, the common language used for client server communicate. I've actually just taught this in 35 literally like last hour, uh, is Http. Uh, so Http is the protocol that allows client and server to communicate with each other. So they are not actually communicating via function calls. And you know, uh, Java dart. Uh, so, um, yeah, this this is why I think this argument doesn't really apply to most kinds of client server systems, because they already have Http as a, as a, uh, a common language. Uh, who wants to argue for the secret detail? Yes. And see whether or not you know what language the code is written in the server, because the client should have its own interface. That's right. Yes, I have a similar thick one. Okay. Can't find a big one right now. But, uh. Yes. So this is a detail that can change. You might want to upgrade your server to use a different kind of technology right now. Node.js is quite popular, but maybe, maybe in two years there's going to be, I don't know, uh, UML, uh, like UCLA backend language version two. And then everybody wants to use UCLA backend language version two. Uh, then you might want to update your server to this new programing language without the client having to know about this. So you want to have them, uh, ideally, uh, not know about this. Okay. This one, uh, whether this server is implemented in Node.js, Java or Dart between the user class and the payment class, who thinks there should be a visible contract between these classes? Who thinks it should be a hidden detail? Okay. Interesting. Different opinions. Want to argue for the visible contract? Yes, because these two parties have to work together. So we have to know what language each other is using so they can work. Exactly. So you can't actually have calls between classes that are not telling you what language they're implemented in. Right. So in this case, because they are classes, they actually have to use these languages to communicate. So the argument we have just heard earlier that one does apply to this level. So this is why you want uh, you need they need to know it's impossible for them. They the user class can't call the payment class without knowing what language it's implemented in. What is that designed? Would be absolutely terrible if you somehow could come up with a design. It would be incredibly hard to write any code. Yes. Uh, I have a question on the language. When we're saying, like, physical configurations, it's not necessarily it's to the client or. No, no, no between like the. Yeah. Between these two. So the question here is only between these two. So yeah. So so the other question here is really just between these two not between anything else. So here it's between the user class and the payment class I guess. Yeah. That confusion uh it's good to have clear up. Okay. Last one whether PayPal is used as a payment method, should that be part of the contract between the client and the server, or should one of these two modules hide this decision from the other, who thinks it should be a visible contract? Okay, interesting. Who thinks they should be here in detail? Very interesting. We are split almost halfway. This is amazing. Okay, who wants to? And I think this one actually has really good arguments both ways. I'm really happy that we see hands go up for both. Okay. Who wants to argue for the visible contract? Yes. I think data is already an interface of the user. Okay, so you're basically saying because the user needs to know what the future is, it has to be in the client, right? Could it could it be implemented without the server knowing though? It could be implemented without the server knowing. Could there be a way how do we design the system that only the client knows that we support people? We could. How? Because like we could pull from the server that we know, but we would have to put people somewhere. I don't think so. Okay. You can you can think about this for a while. Uh, who wants to argue for the secret detail? Oh, no. That's worse. Wait, are you arguing for visible universalism? For visible? Yes. Okay, who wants to argue for hidden detail? Who basically wants to answer this question? How could we design the system where this is hidden, where it's only known by one of the components? Thought some handsome and up? Yes, and walked all the pavement in the car that they would like enhance class. Yeah. You could just get distracted and so whatever. Right. You could you could implement this in a way where all of the payment is handled inside the client, and then the client just sends a message to the server and says payment has been handled, right. The server doesn't even know what payment methods exist because all of the payment is just handled purely in the client. Yes. Isn't that like a security issue? Exactly. Yes, that's a security issue. That's the reason why the NSA, uh, here, in my opinion, should be visible contracts because of security. Because if you somehow put this in the client, client side code can always be easily manipulated. Somebody could figure out what is the message I need to send to the server to say payment has been handled? Uh, that's exactly true. So then you can have fully full guarantee that, uh, you've actually charged the code because somebody could reverse engineer what specific message would need to be send, and then somehow send this message to the server. And then the server can have any way how to doesn't have any means to, uh, to verify this because the server doesn't even know what payment methods exist. But I think this is a really interesting case because you could think of both alternatives, but then the good one with the hidden detail doesn't work because of security. Yes. Um, what if there's like an X? Oh. That's really interesting. That would be okay. Now I really need to make sure that I find one of these big ones, because this is a brilliant answer. I'm very sorry. You just get. Just get two different ones, okay? Um. Um. Yeah. So you could you could use a, you know, third component, and that is known by the client and server. Uh, that is that we trust that we all trust this additional component. We have full control over this. And then this this separate component is handling this. This is actually how a lot of, you know, web services work. They all use a third party payment gateway, basically. So then they have this kind of architecture we've come up with. But then the payment gateway is like a third party service. This is yeah, this this is how we would change this. Then we would instead of keeping this modularization and making the decision whether we want to have this as a secret. Um, this in this, uh, on one side of the interface, we then create a different module that hides this. This is exactly what Panos was talking about, that you then pick a module that, uh, hides this decision from the others, if this is possible. I love this idea. This is great. Okay. Yes. I don't think so. I don't think so. So if you use one of these. Okay, let's actually take PayPal as an example. Right. So in PayPal you can add a lot of different credit cards. The web shop doesn't know what kind of credit card you have. You have to add different kind of payment methods inside your. I guess I guess you somehow have to present it in the UI. So you have to maybe redirect them to a separate page or something like this. Yeah, I think it's not. It's not trivial to implement, but I'm pretty sure it's possible. I'm pretty sure it's somehow possible. Anyways. Okay. So we've we've identified exactly the kind of questions you should ask yourself when you are designing a system like this. So what are the decisions that are likely to change? Can we somehow modularize them in one of the two modules? If not, maybe come up with a third module that hides this decision? Um, what are the the quality? Any good trade offs? Do we somehow run into security challenges? Do we run into, uh, some UI challenges? Uh, you know, what are the trade offs there? So we want to think about all of these. This has been an amazing conversation. Okay. Yeah. So information hiding is about changeability. So this is, um, a different kind of quality attribute than what you have probably seen in most of the other classes you've taken here at UCLA. Uh, this is not just about functionality. This is not just trying to get the ideal algorithm or, uh, the most efficient database query or, um, the best operating system. This is about thinking about what might happen in the future. Uh, so we want to follow the information hiring principle, want to make sure there's only one module that needs to change when a design decision changes. And uncle Bob, who has heard of uncle Bob before? Um, he is one of this original software engineering gurus. Uh, so in the old generation, uh, I was these software engineering gurus that wrote books, uh, and gave talks, uh, and everybody followed their advice. So he, uh, his legal name is Robert C Martin. He's by his own called uncle Bob. He says, gather together the things that change for the same reasons. Separate those things that change for different reasons. That's basically kind of the information guiding principle phrase in just different words. Um. The inflammation hiding principle also reduces cognitive load. That's really important because every single human has limited cognitive load. You can only understand so many things. You can only hold like seven things in your memory and program comprehension. Uh, studies have found that program comprehension takes up 58% of the time of a software development. More than half of your time is spent reading code, understanding existing code. You would think you get paid to change code, but to change code, you have to understand the code. So, uh, more than half of your time is spent trying to make sense of the code that already exists. So any effort that goes into making this process easier and quicker and less error prone then enables you to write more code because you've you've reduced more than half of your time to a smaller amount. So you want to optimize your code for readability, not for write ability. You want to optimize your code in a way that reduces the cognitive load to understand it. And the information hiding principle is an amazing way to do this, because you only need to consider one design decision when you look at the module. So you want to design modules. Uh, they can be used without understanding how they work internally. When you look at this, uh, order service from a high level perspective, you want to understand what it does without having to look inside the module. Who has encountered the opposite before where you like? I don't even know what this module does. Let me just look inside the code. Who has encountered that situation before you? You felt like you had to read the code to really understand what it does. You want to avoid writing modules like this. You want to write modules where you just read the like three sentence summary and you'll know exactly what it does. And you don't have to look inside the code to understand what it does. Um. And it's not just about public and private. I see this all the time, especially when I talk to practitioners. I'm like, I'm teaching information hiding in my class and that, oh, this is just public and private, right? I'm like, no, no, it's not just public and private. The naming of information hiding is, I feel like the worst mistake that David Ponsford has made in his entire life. It should not be called information hiding. Uh, it should be called, uh, design decision, encapsulation principle. There will be my naming of the design principle. The design decision encapsulation principle. It's not as easy to say, but I think it encapsulates the idea. It's not about hiding data. It's not about data hiding. A lot of people think of it as, I want to hide this data field. I want to hide this method. That's not really what the information hiding principle is about. Yes, of course, when you have a module, you want to make as many things private as possible to hide these design decisions. But just thinking as, oh, well, I just make my, uh, my getters and setters private or make my attributes private, or I make this method private. Now I've done information hiding. Yay yay yay. No, that's not enough. That's not enough. Information hiding is about the structure of your modules and not just the interfaces between them. So it's about hiding design decisions, not about hiding data. It's a completely different way to think about this. Yeah. So the entire design of a system and interface determines where the information hiding is applied. Well, not just these local. Yeah. Is this method public or private? And you also want to think about the relation of the size of the interface and the lines of code behind the interface. So we call these modules deep modules that hide a lot of code behind a small interface. And we call these shallow modules when they hide only a little bit of code behind a relatively large interface. So what kinds of modules are better deep modules or shallow modules. What kind of modules do we want? And why? Yes. It just depends on, like, what kind of task we're trying to accomplish. Interesting. It's a simple task where the user doesn't get involved at all. But then there's so much done in the background and the deeper one is better. Like the plug. Mhm. Like the user doesn't need to know anything besides just plug. Yeah. But what if it's like, uh I don't know like web interface for a programmer like that one doesn't need to hide the one of the things. So you would have to have really big hmhm and then only little. What are your thoughts to add on to a second part? I think like especially nowadays when you're playing to me, I want to have control over a lot of different parameters and as a developer just hides all the stuff. Mhm. You have yourself basically redevelop the whole model yourself, because I have seen a business where you are only a thousand steps for like three. Uh, I want to specify this. Uh, that's great. Right? I think this is an example of where a design decision is not hidden behind the interface, because the design decision that you might also want the additional parameter that should, uh, that should, you know, be enabled by the system somehow. Right. So you might want to have a, let's say like Json parameter that allows you to add more things and then the module somehow supports those. Um, um, but uh, yeah. So in general, so in general, you want to optimize for deep modules because they are the ones that are the most useful. The most useful. The whole purpose of information hiding is to, uh, reduce the things that you need to understand to reduce the cognitive load, to reduce the complexity, so that you, as a human, only have to focus on this small piece of interface, and you don't have to worry about all of these millions of lines of code behind this interface. Uh, so a lot of operating system calls. So let's say the read call, the right call. They are good examples of this. They have very, very small interfaces. But there are so many different state exceptions and uh, and hardware specific design decisions that have to be hidden behind these interfaces. So a lot of the um, libraries you are using should be designed this way. There are some libraries that are designed this way. Uh, but there are some instances where you want to have a shallow module. When might we want a shallow module? When might be one day. That's a difficult question. So talk about this with a neighbor for like 30s. Yes. Yeah, like. Okay. Any thoughts? Any ideas? Yes. So you have like some models that. Took in information from all of your other modules. Hmm. Made a bunch of, like, function calls. You'd want that to look relatively simple and easy to read, because, you know, someone is trying to get an understanding of the overall orchestration of your system. You know, would want to read that? Sure. That makes sense. So whenever, whenever you want the module to be like read by the human where they actually want to like read the source code. Of course you want the source code to be simple and small. Any other examples? Have. You may be seeing an example of a great but shallow module. In this lecture. Yes. Maybe something to do with authentication. Authentication also. Like maybe there's a lot of layers just to get like a very simple password or just like authenticated equals. But. But that does still hide quite a bit of different state. Um, so I think authentication is actually a good example of where that usually hides actually quite a bit of detail. Maybe there's some like two factor authentication that is happening. There are a lot of different cryptographic details that are hidden. Um, yeah. Like. Right? Yeah. Yeah. Right. Whenever you want to, uh, combine one interface with another, that's basically kind of what our, our payment gateway was doing. Right. So we had our, uh, service at once to use PayPal, but PayPal itself, using PayPal was a design decision we wanted to hide. So our payment gateway is very shallow, right? It's basically just for warning or it's just translating the requests of, let's say, checkout, refund and payment. It's just translating this interface into the PayPal specific interface. That's all it does, right? It doesn't really have a lot of lines of code, but in this case, and I hope okay, I didn't actually have the answer on this slide. But uh, in this case, we do want the shallow module to exist because this hides the decision that PayPal exists. It just translates from our needs to PayPal. But it's hiding the existence of PayPal. So the only purpose of this module is to hide this very simple decision that we translated to PayPal. In those cases, we do want the shallow modules. Yes. Um, I also feel like, um, if you're doing like someone who's hmhm more flexible. Mhm. You are developing the entire model anyway, so you know very well what. You might want to write like helper functions, for instance. Another module that will tell us that one is interesting, but I would I would recommend that the assumption that you are the only one working on this, that one might change. Yeah. No. But still like, you know, for instance, um. For some APIs. There are a lot of different parameters that are really identifiable, and all of them are like the like defaulting him, you know, so you don't have to actually specify all the parameters, but they're there for you. Yeah. Also maybe your future colleagues to use them. I guess that makes sense. That makes sense. So there are still some reasons for us to to have shallow modules. But in general you want to, uh, optimize for deep modules and you want to avoid shallow modules unless the whole existence of the module is the reason why you want it. And the code doesn't really matter that much. Uh, there are a few other design principles that help you, uh, to guide you towards a design that is more kind of in the direction of information hiding. So all of these concepts of, like, they overlap a lot. Um, so don't feel like, oh, this all sounds like just rehashing the same idea over and over. Yeah, that's kind of true, but it's, uh, it's giving you vocabulary and it's also giving you a, um, a different way to think about this. So we have the concepts of coupling and cohesion. So coupling the dependencies between modules. So these uh, coupling and then cohesion is the dependencies within a module. Uh so here we have one modularization that uses high coupling where we have quite a few dependencies between the modules but not that many dependencies within the module. And here we have a modularization that has low coupling. We only have 1 to 3 dependencies between modules. But we have all possible combinations of dependencies within a module. Which one is better, which one is generally preferable. High coupling and low cohesion or low coupling and high cohesion. Talk to neighbor. I. Okay, I believe I have not gotten an answer from that part of the room, so I think this question is a good one to ask that part of the room for an answer. Nobody wants to make eye contact. Yes. Is the low, low coupling? Why? Um, like work on each module? Mhm. Without like, fear of messing up on their one. Exactly. Yes. Yeah. So so low coupling and high cohesion is preferable. We want modules to have low fewer dependencies to other modules. And the question that's may be a little bit counterintuitive. Why didn't we say like dependencies are bad. We want to reduce dependencies. Why are we not always saying that dependencies within a module are still cool? Why? Why is that? Why is it still cool to have dependencies within a module? Yes. Right. So if you could come up with a structure where you just have almost no dependencies at all, that that is probably preferable. You also want a module to be a coherent set of things that are related to each other. If they are not really related, why are they one module? Right? So if you have a module that has maybe half of the things that are related and the other half of the things are related, but they are not related amongst each other, you want to split them into separate modules so that they can then be looked at individually. So you want to group things together that are semantically related. They have dependencies amongst each other and um. Yeah. So also cohesion and coupling. They're always kind of relative to each other. So um yeah it's kind of like you want you want generally more cohesion than coupling. Yeah. So if you have this kind of architecture and you have a change in one module that usually ripples through the entire architecture. So you can change this module. Oh. And then you also have to change that one. Oh we also have to change this one. So this this architecture is a very high a coupling between modules always almost always lead to this change ripple effect. These are really hard to understand really hard to reuse really hard to test individually. These ones are much cleaner. And you have this really small interface. You have to just test a very small interface. It's really easy to set up. It's really easy to understand. So you want your modules to look like this. And this is a great point to remind you again, that module itself is again a hierarchical definition. So here the yellow squares are module. But then the circles are also a module right. So um when we are talking about between modules and within modules there's always depends on the current level of hierarchy that we are looking at. Um, so uh, this principle basically applies to all different layers of the hierarchy. Yes. Well, I mean, at some point you're, you're like at functions. So let's say these circles are functions. Um, then you have a lot of dependencies within the class that are like functions called each other. Um, at what level. Which you want to have high coupling. Oh no, this would be cohesion because the module would be a class and then its submodules are the functions. So then on that level that is the cohesion. Then we are within the class. The modules can depend on each other. But then if you are talking about functions across modules they should they should not depend on each other. So this these would be functions within a class. They should depend on each other. But functions between classes they should only be few dependencies. And then if we look at these as classes classes inside of a package, they should depend on each other. But then classes across module boundaries classes in different packages. They should then have fewer dependencies. This makes sense. So the difference is that these dependencies cross module boundaries. That's right. But they have a module inside other modules. So we, we we have this big hierarchy and we don't want dependencies that go across hierarchical module balance. We want dependencies to be local. So if you maybe think of this as a graph, you want your dependencies to be within a local group. You don't want them to cross the big branch boundaries. That make maybe more sense to think about it this way. Okay. This has been great. Um, then there are also some dependencies that are maybe less obvious. So when we talk about you want more dependencies within a module than between modules. Um, what is the dependencies. So the most obvious dependencies, you know us syntactic dependencies. These are the ones we have drawn in the UML diagrams. Right. Uh, what component A cannot be compiled or interpreted without component B? That is a syntactic dependency that's really easy to see. Every single code analyzer can automatically calculate all syntactic dependencies, uh, making a call using the class name using the interface there. Really obvious. But then there are also very tricky semantic dependencies. Semantic dependencies is when component A doesn't function properly without component B. So let's say component A and component B, they process the same data, and B assumes that A has done some pre-processing pre-processing. Right. They don't have syntactic calls between each other. A static analyzer would not tell you that they are related, but component B doesn't work if component A hasn't been doing some pre-processing. Or a change in B also requires a change in A if they implement the same design decision. Um. For example, if they both use PayPal, you don't really see them making calls between each other. Right. So the modules that use PayPal, they might have few syntactic dependencies, but they have the semantic dependency that they depend on. Uh, PayPal. Right. And you could also have these dependencies be, um, uh, non-obvious. In this case they, they use the same API, but you could also have cases in which they, uh, do not use the same API. And um, uh, yeah. So the, the way how you can one way, how you can figure them out from the history of your project is actually to look at the commit history and look at methods and classes and files that often change together. And then you can you can use this as a metric to see okay. So maybe some dependance semantic dependency. There are a lot of different ways how to do this. But you want to basically not just focus purely on syntactic dependencies. Well, you often see this that people, when they see us in tactic dependency, they just somehow hide this via dependency injection. And they're like, okay, now that dependency is gone. No, the dependency is not gone. You've just made it less obvious that the dependency exists. You want to come up with the design where the dependency is ideally, um, uh, completely gone. Or if it's not gone, then you at least want to make it explicit. You want people to know that this dependency exists so that they can plan for it. They can understand it, yes. The first command conference calls to a remote corner, the second time going into the project. Exactly. Yes. So this would be a logical error if you make, let's say in this case you forgot to start component A, then component B gives you the wrong result. Or if your design decision has changed and you've only changed it in one part of the system, but you've not changed it in the other part, then you might run into a bug. Um, yeah. So this is these are basically logical errors. These are syntactic errors and the logical errors because they are generally harder to find, you know, syntactic errors. Your compiler interpreter will tell you runtime errors. You are much harder to find. You want to make these ones more explicit. Uh, and you definitely want to avoid them if you can't make them explicit. Okay. Other questions. This is such a fun class. I feel like last quarter everybody was super tired. It was like a morning lecture. I feel like nobody was awake yet. I feel like this. This class is great. Like so many great questions and answers, I love it. Yes, it's a harder to identify. Okay, so the kinds of design principles you want to focus on. Uh, from the perspective modularity, uh, the information hiding principle. Uh, what is information hiding principle again? Sorry, I forgot. What was the information hiding principle? Who remembers information hiding principle? Yes. Can you repeat this? Abstracting away complexity. And how do we identify what's the complexity we want to. We want to abstract away what was the criterion we use for deciding what we abstract away. Yes, exactly. Design decisions that are hard or likely to change. Those are the ones we want to hide. Uh, and then low coupling. We want to reduce dependencies between modules. We want to have high coupling. A single concept should be implemented inside of each module. So they should be semantically coherent. Uh, and then separation of concerns is a slightly more general design principle from information hiding. So this is. Uh, you want to separate concerns that are, um, um, different. So a single concern is easily separated from the rest of other concerns. What is a concern? A concern is basically a requirement. So you want to separate the implementation of different requirements. Uh, this is actually a really great paper from the 1972, I believe, uh, in degrees of Separation of Concerns that tells you that it's actually impossible to do this across all different concerns. You will always have some cross-cutting concerns. You will always have some concerns that are cross-cutting your module boundaries, because you can only pick one what's called the tyranny of a dominant decomposition. Anyways, that's a hard paper to read. Um, but um, do you want to read it? I can also point to this paper as well. Uh, you want to identify what's. What's hard? Oh, what is no what is hard to change? So what is hard to change? Not what hardly changes. But what is hard to change? What is hard to change? The. I wish. They should be hidden inside of. Oh, so you're a light. What is likely to change that should be put in a module, because if you don't put it in a module, then it is hard to change. Because then then you, you move a, uh, you have to make this change across a lot of different modules. Yes. Yes, exactly. You want to hide what it's likely to change? Okay. Yeah. So separation of concerns is a slight generalization. You're basically saying, uh, you want to just separate things and implement different requirements. You're not really saying information hiding principle as an instantiation of this thing concerns the design decisions. But that's more okay. Um, yeah. So when we want to, uh, design modules, uh, a modular design method is basically a method that leads you towards more modular design. Uh, and the principles we've learned so far, they are all instances of a modular design method. Here's another one. Uh, the single choice principle. This one is really interesting because this one, you see violated quite often in practice. So whenever you have a set of alternatives, let's say different kinds of payment methods, you have PayPal, you have Bitcoin, you have stripe, or let's say you have different types of customers. You have a priority customer. You have a five star customer, you have a, uh, returning customer, you have a new customer. You have these different types of customers. Whenever you have a set of alternatives, only one module should know the exhaustive list of these alternatives. So instead of replicating this list of alternatives across all modules. So let's say the, um, if you implement this, uh, the system of the different payment methods, then your checkout service, your refund service, um, your wallet service, if they all have to know what, uh, payment methods you support, they all have some code that lists all of them. Then every single time you add a new alternative, you would have to change all of these modules. You have to remember to change all of them. And that's the hardest part. If you can easily identify what are all of the modules that have to change for a specific change, it's not a good modularization. And if you can't figure it out, Claud or ChatGPT or um, or Gemini also can figure it out. Um. So picking a modularization well, it's only one module that has to change is preferable because then you know exactly the only module that implements this. Uh will will then use this. And the way how you implement this in practice is basically with polymorphism. Right. So you then you have this interface of different implementations and you just instantiate that somewhere and you inject the dependency. Uh, yeah. So this is list of design principles that Robert C Martin collected and called the solid design principles. Um, oh no, this is not actually part of the solid principles. Um, but anyways, the sort of principles you might also want to look up. Uh, I teach solid in 35 l, but I don't think anybody currently in this room has taken 35 L with me. So you have not had the pleasure to learn the solid design principles. You can look them up. They are there. They're quite nice, but they're maybe a little bit more low level. Um. And then the way how you identify how great your modularization is, is via change impact analysis. Um, so you list all of the changes they could reasonably happen. Then you prioritize them by likelihood, and then you evaluate the effort that it takes to make the change to the current architecture. Um. Let's see. This might not fit in this, uh, lecture, but, um, here we have some Java classes, by the way. If you're not familiar with Java, who is not familiar with Java? Oh, have you learned Java like 131? Or where do you learn Java? Just in your free time. Okay. Yeah. Okay, great. Last time I taught this, like, half the class was like Java with Java. Um, uh, our midterm and final, they will be in Java. Uh, so, uh, you will have to, you know, read some Java. You don't really have to write a lot of Java. You might have to write some Java. We're not super, uh, nit picky on syntax because this is not a syntax class. But you need to read Java and you need to kind of describe your ideas in a way that looks like Java. And that is an confuse people who know Java. Um, because for these kinds of systems, I feel like Java is a good language to consider. But yeah, okay, this this might not fit in this lecture because I only have ten more minutes. Right? Um, but yeah, you might you might want to look at this, uh, at home and, and play it out with your, with yourself. Going through this code example and then, uh, figuring out what are the potential changes and what modules would have to change for this, um, change to, to employ. Okay. Yeah, I think this is also part of the second homework, just for a different example. So get some practice with this. And you have to kind of realize the things that we give you more practice with are probably the ones that you will also have to perform under pressure. Um, yeah. Maybe they'll do this on Thursday because this is important. What's the. Oh yeah. On Thursday we do the first batch of design patterns. Yeah, well we'll do this on Thursday. Let's do this on Thursday. And then you have, you have a little bit of time to kind of go through this concept again. And we'll do this in the beginning of the lecture on Thursday because yeah, I want to I want to do this. And I think the first design pattern lecture might maybe be a little bit. We can crunch this a little bit more than this one. Good morning. Hi. Uh, is there a reason? Well. Uh, there are two reasons. This course has always been in Java, and it's really hard to change courses. Um, in a world where more than one professor teaches a course. Um, and, uh, when you think of interfaces. Right, this course has the look interface is a very critical part of this course, but Python doesn't really have first class language support for interfaces, and it doesn't have types in the interfaces. So I think a course like this would probably. Um, yeah, it requires interfaces as first class elements and it requires types, um, and objects. And I feel like Python, uh, I feel like Python is kind of leading you towards a less object oriented design than Java or C plus plus. So I guess C plus plus would be the if I wouldn't pick Java, I would probably pick C plus plus and it. Yeah. As we talked, we learned that a yeah, but Java is still one of the most common programing languages. What would you recommend? Um. Maybe I'll give you a Java. No, I'm not sure if I can do this this week. Um. Um. I was going to say, because I've been I've been building like a billion tutorials over the last few weeks for 35 hours, like for Python, for JavaScript, for Node.js, for react, for Prolog. Uh, I might just build one for Java. I think I think like online web tutorial for Java should be doable. Uh, maybe I'll do this tomorrow morning. We'll see. We'll see how far I get. We'll see how maybe I can get it done tomorrow morning. We'll see. I might send in, uh, an announcement if somehow I get, uh, uh, in the browser Java tutorial for you folks. Yeah. Uh, I mean, it's fun. It's fun. And it's also like, you know, I mean, the question of how do I learn Java is is a valid one, right? So it would be great if we had some support for this. Um, but, uh, yeah. So. Of course. Let me just turn off the mic. Okay. So we have two questions. That's great.