[Auto-generated transcript. Edits may have been applied for clarity.] Yeah. Of. Thank goodness. Really want to do this? That's. I love this. Okay, I'm sorry that I will probably be like 1 or 2 minutes late most of the time because I'm teaching 35 L. Um, like ten minutes before this. So I will not always make it perfectly on time, which is very undetermined. I'm very sorry for this. Um, okay. Cool. Let's let's get started. Okay. This is. This is 35 L. This is. 136. Okay. Okay. You've all. What is this? Huh? It's just a projector. How can we turn this off? Does anybody know how to tie that one there? This seems like a check. Okay. I guess it is some. Okay. I guess this is working okay. Okay. I think standing up here seems very intimidating. Let me get down here. Okay. Still better to get all of the light in the face anyways. Well, we'll try to make it work. Uh, we've had, I think, 35 down here last year. Last quarter. Right. Three quarters ago. Oh, you've been in the other room anyways. Uh, not sure why they gave us this huge lecture hall for like 120 students, but. Okay. Anyways, so you have learned amazing skills. You have, uh, previous courses have taught you a lot of things about programing, and programing is like magic. You can build complex systems just by typing words. You can make seemingly large changes just by making relatively quick changes. So you are a wizard. And, um, but your job as a wizard is not easy. Because software systems are very, very complex. I think everybody here has somehow used windows or has seen someone use windows or has taken operating systems. What would you guess if we were to print out the source code of windows? How tall would this paper stack be? Or if you prefer to answer in lines of code. What would you guess? How many lines of code are there in the windows operating system? I forgot my candy. Get the candy. Okay. Who wants to give a guess? Yes. Who wants a million lines of code? Millions. Okay. How many millions? Who wants to give a guess? What's that? No. Who wants to give a guess? How many millions? Yes. 40 million. That's incredibly close. That's incredibly close. 50 million. 50 million. That's about the size. So if you print out this source code on just normal sized paper, you will get a paper stack that is twice as tall as Bryce Hall. How many books have you read in your life? Stack all of them on top of each other. This is rich Royce Hall. Probably not. Does it reach twice of Roy's Hall? No way. And that's the same for everyone who's working at windows. Microsoft. So if you read eight hours per day at about the reading speed of an average developer, it will take you more than ten years just to read the source code. Not even to understand and process, just to read ten years. Not a single person at Microsoft has ever even read the entire source code of windows, but they can still mostly make changes that kind of work most of the time, not all the time. There are bugs, a lot of bugs, but they've created engineering principles that allow them to work on this system without having even read any, like, significant portion of the source code. That's quite impressive, right? If you think about this, these are incredibly complex systems. So you as a you as a wizard, you have to make sure that your magic is not going to mess anything up. And that's what this class is about. Not a single person has ever read the source code, but they can still make changes. So how? How does this work? Let's get some inspiration from other engineering disciplines. You see, a photo of the Tower Bridge in London was built a few centuries ago. Um, what do you think? What kind of engineering process have they gone through to construct this bridge? Talk to your neighbor. Describe. Describe the process step by step. What kind of steps are taken? If you don't have a neighbor, you want to sit somewhere where you have a neighbor. You're going to need a neighbor. Okay. What do you guess? Who wants to give a guess? Not you. You've seen this lecture? Most of the lecture. Okay. Who wants a guess? Okay, here we have a guest in the first row. Yes. All we saw was like it was us for, like, five minutes from the investors. A lot of the analysis shows there is a. Long held area. You have to, like, take a few years to lay the foundation. Perfect description. Yes. Yes. That's very, very accurate. You want to give a different answer? I was just going to say that probably also to consider like and using the analogy to the modern day, all of the repeatable modern components or modular components like bricks. Mhm. Yeah. Yes. Designed from scratch each time. I love this metaphor. Yes. Yeah. So so the first identified. What are the actual requirements. What do we need for this bridge. If you don't understand what you need it's hard to build something. Right. So they, uh describe the requirements. Identify okay. Of course. This shall connect the roadways on both ends. So if we just build a bridge that doesn't connect to the roads, that's not going to be fun, right? It's not going to work well. Also, the bridge shall open to tallish tall ships to pass. This is a bridge that actually does open. I should have seen this, but this can actually open for ships. And then we have some nonfunctional requirements or how we like to call them in software architecture quality attributes, additional requirements in addition to just the pure functionality, for example durability. We want this to withstand heavy use in heavy weather for more than 100 years, right? If we build a bridge and then in 100 years, it's not going to, uh, be stable anymore. That's not a good investment. We want to think about not just what the bridge should do, but also the quality of the result that is desirable. Also, there are some performance property. We don't want to wait two hours for the bridge to open. Let's say we want to just wait 15 minutes. So we need to add a timing or performance property on this as well. And then after death come up with all of these requirements. Then the next step, uh, is exactly design. So we come up with a lot of blueprints. Right. So you see these architects have a lot of different models, different views on the architecture. And then they analyze this. Then they have some, uh, experts at statics and then, uh, identify is this strong enough, all of the forces, is it durable enough? Does it open fast enough? So they do quite extensive analysis of these models. And then when they construct the bridge, it's really important for them to ensure that these two, uh, actually connect together, which is not trivial. This is really, really hard to do when you develop different components individually. Making sure that they connect together is really important in bridge building and also in software engineering. Right. If you you want to build different components at the same time, you need to make sure they all agree on the same interface so that they all connect together. Right. Um, and then well, how is software constructed in the real world? Well, we often don't see this process, sometimes for good reason, sometimes for not so good reason. Uh, what they usually do developers is they look at what are the most reusable pieces that they can take. They take these blocks and then they they put them together. Um, kind of almost looks like a bridge. Right. Uh, let me maybe make some small changes to these reusable parts. Okay. Not now. This actually works. Now we can drive some cars over the bridge. So let's do this. Let's drive some cars over the bridge to see if it breaks and if it breaks. Well, we've messed up. What do we do? Do we engineer it the right way? Rarely. Rarely. In most cases, we just take some people. We regulate around some of the broken things and call this a quick fix. And then we call it done. We pray that it doesn't break again. Well, that's not necessarily the right way to build software. Um, if we were to build buildings the same way we build software, this would look like this. This is one of the first civil engineering project of the scale of which we build software nowadays, where they started with a very ambitious plan and then they realize, oh, well, we don't actually have the solid foundation. It's not stable enough. We don't want it to be completely ruined like our previous project. They actually did a previous project where then the entire pyramid collapsed. So they were like, let's not do this again. Let's at this point and now, 5000 years later, everyone can still see their mistake. So you want to make sure that the software you build doesn't look like this, that in 5000 years people will look at your projects and be like, ha! How did they mess up? Didn't they take 130? Um, so in this class, we're going to teach you how to engineer software. The right way and the right way often depends on the context. So this waterfall model of starting with all of the requirements engineering, then all of the design, all of the development, all of the testing, all of the deployment. That's not usually the right way to build modern software, but we still need to identify. Do we have to follow these steps, at least for each of the increment that we have built? But you might think many of you are probably on the job market right now, and you are asked about your use of AI, and you might have seen all of these news articles that no. 16 called agents built a completely new C compiler from scratch, just $20,000. If they pay you $20,000, it might you might not reach the level of a compiler, or they would have to pay you much more. So you might think, do we even still need all of these software engineering skills? Didn't anthropic say software engineering a solved? Well, I have good news and bad news. So the good news is, I believe you still have a job. I think software engineering will still be around, at least until we reach the point of actual AGI. Then, you know all bets are off. Um, but until that happens, I believe you still have a job. And that also means that your skills are still valuable. And, um, the past few weeks, I've been digging through all of the research on how does AI impact software development and what the current research consensus is. Of course, this will change. You know, when we have more long term data and when we have better models. Uh, so far, uh, what we see in a large scale study is a Google, uh, and uh, other companies is that developers with the strongest foundations in software engineering receive the largest productivity boost from AI. So the, um, myth that you sometimes hear some CEOs of AI companies say, or some of the people in the media that now everybody can code. That's not actually true in a professional setting. So I works as an amplifier, not as an equalizer, which means that AI magnifies existing strengths of high performing individuals and teams. So what Google did is they analyzed which teams received a larger productivity boost from AI, and the ones that follow many of these principles to learn in this class, they received a much larger boost and their productivity from AI than the teams that did not follow a well-established software engineering process. So this means that experienced developers can use the knowledge and or foundations and they can anticipate edge cases. Uh, which, uh what do you think? What does this mean for your college experience the last few quarters or the last quarter of your, uh, about to graduate? How does this impact the way how you approach this class and also other classes? Talk to your neighbor. You know, you got. I feel a lot more like. Okay. What do you say? What? What are your thoughts on this? Who wants to share their thoughts. Okay. Who has an answer? You want to share your answer? You don't really. If you use I like. Your way through. And that's just. That's right. Yeah. So you want to. You want to use your opportunity while you're still. Okay. That's quite on. Okay. You want to use your opportunity while you are still in an educational environment to maximize your skills. Uh, so you want to focus on building durable skills that will still be around for a long time. That can then be amplified with AI. Uh, so software engineering is about a lot of things. They will still be doable. And you want to identify that, uh, in this learning environment, your actual, you know, uh, let's say how much code you write, how, how fast you complete your homework. That's not really a metric by which you should measure your own success. You should measure your success by how much you've increased your skills. Right? The more skills you've acquired, the more you've succeeded. And many of these things will still, you know. Software engineering is about identifying what the user really needs and describing it in a clear way so that then somebody can implement this, you know, and that somebody could potentially also be some magical AI that can just read your specification. It's about decomposing larger problems into smaller, uh, easier solvable sub problems that will still be around in the next decade or so. Let's not make claims about after that. But, uh, identifying content dependent trade offs and how one decision impacts another part of the system. It's about conducting quality assurance processes to ensure that the system that is being built is built the right way. And I actually think that all of these, um, they will all become much more important while, you know, coding and writing code that will probably, you know, be a smaller portion of the time that a professional developer will spend on, they will probably spend a lot of time on these. Um, so this is why it's still really important for you to, uh, understand these different processes and trade offs and identify, uh, how you can increase your skills so that then you can amplify them with AI. So make sense? Any questions about. This or the research on this? Okay, seems like everyone is on board. That's good. Um, so. Even though this is maybe the last quarter for many of you, I still going to give you some overview of some evidence based strategies for effective learning, because I think in this new world, uh, we might have to continue learning maybe for a little bit longer than was traditionally the case. Um. So, uh, actually, a lot of this research has been done at UCLA, um, by the Bjork, uh, for Getting and learning lab. So if you have questions on this, you can maybe direct them at the box. Uh, but it seems like there is very strong evidence for, uh, the technique of interleaving. Interleaving is the approach of instead of studying the same topic for a prolonged period of time, and then studying another topic for prolonged period of time, you want to interleave these different topics. Uh, so you want to, um. Study one topic for a while, then another topic for a while. You want to interleave them. Uh, generation. It's the approach of, uh, for example, guessing what a command does before looking it up. You want to, um, try to solve a problem without having the skills to solve them? This struggle is often quite effective. So if you feel like you don't know the answer to something, you might want to try to come to your best answer before you use Google to find out the actual answer, right. We are now living in a world where all of the answers to all of our questions are just a few keystrokes away, but for our learning, it's actually more effective to struggle in our brain, ourselves, before we try to find an answer. We also similarly to decomposing, um, larger problems into smaller problems in software engineering. When we learn skills, we often can't learn the really tough skill. Um. At once. So often we want to split them into smaller component skills and study them individually. So whenever you're encountering a problem that you have that you're working on in this course, in the project or in, um, I guess we don't really have too tough. I guess we'll see if maybe we can make the homework a little bit tougher for you. Kidding kidding kidding. Kidding. Um, but, uh, yeah. You want to decompose daunting two complex tasks into smaller, manageable tasks, uh, that you can learn individually. Uh, we call these off desirable difficulties. So this is the very counterintuitive notion that the more challenging the learning is, the harder you make it for yourself. The more effective is the learning. Students often feel like if it's easy to learn something, then they have learned more. It's actually exactly the opposite. You want to. Study strategies. They make your brain sweat a little bit more. Then the easier study strategies. So for example interleaving is a good example of a desirable difficulty because you now have to context switch between a lot of topics. You haven't really fully understood the topic before you switch to the next one. This makes a lot of students feel like they are not learning as well. When you ask them how much have you learned? They rank it much worse than the alternative blocking while they actually have learned much more. Also, retrieval practice and spaced practice. Uh, when you try to memorize, uh, remember when you try to, uh, put a lot of time between, uh, your study sessions, these are all desirable difficulties that make it harder for you to study, or at least they are cognitively more demanding. And because they are cognitively more demanding, they are more effective for your learning. So effortful learning is an effective learning retrieval practice. You are a computer scientist. You have taken a lot of computer science classes. You might have gotten the impression that, uh, a read operation doesn't have a side effect. Uh, that might be true for many of the digital systems you have worked with, but it's not true for your brain. The way. How your brain identifies that information is useful is via the read operation. The more often you use the read operation, the more your brain identifies that this knowledge is useful and the more it will store it in its long term memory. So this means that you want to use your memory as often as possible. If you. Other kind of student who likes to highlight notes and then reread the notes. I would recommend you to replace this with quizzing yourself instead of re consuming the material you want to try to use the memory to remember. What have I learned in this lecture? What have I learned last week? You don't want to read consume. You want to memorize? Read. Consuming is not effective at all. Rereading your notes is not as effective as quizzing yourself. Of course, reading your notes is better than not studying at all. Um, but, uh, if you can make the choice between rereading your notes and trying to remember what you have learned, uh, you should always use the read operation of your brain before you use the read operation on the notes. Um, and spaced practice. Um, a lot of students, I want to hear their questions, like the week before the midterm or the day before the midterm. Um, it's a very, very common studying strategy, but it's actually the least, least effective, strident study strategy. If your goal is any kind of long term memory, and we've established that your skills are amplified with AI. So you want to maximize your skills. So you want to spaced your practice. The more effective, uh, the more you've forgotten about your material, the more effective is your retrieval practice. This means that, um, instead of. Studying the same, um, studying for a long period of time before an exam. You want to basically split these study sessions up into smaller, individual chunks every single week. You want to study for all of the classes you are taking. Um, and for this course, we've developed a learning platform that is, uh, supposed to help you do this. We developed some quizzes. We've developed some, um, flashcards for you. Uh, I'm not sure if we will get all of the topics done for you in time, but we'll we'll try our best. We'll try our best to support you with some quizzes and some flashcards so that you can actually practice these. Also, we've developed some digital learning tutors. These are LM based AI. For example, today you're going to learn about user stories. So you're going to get a uh Gemini gem, the user story tutor that you can, um, put your user stories in. It gives you some feedback on your user stories. It will also generate some bad user stories for you, and then give you feedback on your critique of why they are bad. Um, so yeah, I would recommend you to, to use them, um, as much as you think is helpful. Um, yeah. Also, we have this web page, uh, many of these topics are not really, um, finalized. So you want to look at the ones that I recommend you rather than just, you know, some of the future, uh, topics. But the the goal is that eventually all of the topics here will be will be covered on this web page. Not sure if we get it, uh, in time for this quarter, but we also will distribute a notebook element who was part of notebook alum before. I think it's an absolutely amazing resource. So it's a large language model that is optimized for minimal hallucinations, which means that we provided with, uh, um, material from this course, and then it will be able to answer questions, uh, and ask you questions and ask you to generate answers based on the lecture material without having to hallucinate. So, uh, will distribute this at some point later in the quarter because the, the way how it works is that we need the Google email, everyone. And this is a bit of a mess. But anyways, uh, so you will also have access to this. Um, and then I've created a study gym for you to go for a mental workout. Where for all of the quizzes that you've selected, you can select the quizzes for this course. I actually will create a master quiz for all of the, uh, questions of 130. Uh, and then you can space to practice. And if you activate track performance is all just stored locally in your browser. So no, no data shared with anybody. Um, then you can um, it will store which questions you often get wrong, and then you can select only the difficult questions, which are going to be the questions you got wrong more often than 40% of the time. So you can in addition to your normal physical workout, you can do your mental workout to, uh, increase your, uh, skills and knowledge of the material. We've had some students last quarter say that I'm not really sure how this works for other courses at UCLA, but many of them were, like many of the topics require some memorization. Um, I was a bit surprised that this was apparently more for this course and for some other courses. So this this sort of help you kind of memorize some of the content, because if you don't really have the knowledge in your head, you can't really use it. Right? A an empty brain cannot do analysis, an empty brain cannot do a generation. So you have to have some knowledge in your head. Um, so this will help you form this memory in your head. Okay. Questions about this. Cool. Nice. Then at the end of every single lecture, we are going to have exit tickets, because research has shown again that if you use your read operation on your brain, if you try to summarize what you have learned, this is much more effective than watching a recording of this entire lecture. So just the ten minutes of trying to summarize what you have learned will increase your knowledge retention much more than if tomorrow you would watch the recording. Um, so this is why, at the end of every lecture, we are going to ask you these three questions. Briefly summarize, uh, what you've learned in this lecture will have some application questions. And then we'll have some questions where you can put down your questions that you didn't understand. And they will contribute to your, um, to your participation grade. So they, uh, we will only grade them for completion. Uh, not for correctness. Uh, because if you somehow misunderstood something, we don't want you to feel pressure on this. Um, and the most important thing for these exit tickets is that you do not look up your notes. You do not look up the lecture slides, but you want to answer all of them as best as you can, just based on your memory, right? Because you're not using your read operation otherwise. Okay. Any questions about this so far? Okay, cool. Let's talk about some questions. Justice. So in this class, you will learn how to systematically engineer large scale software systems to learn design and modeling. You learn collaborative development, object oriented design patterns and refactoring. You learn build and integration skills, unit testing, regression testing skills and bug finding, uh, and some, uh, software inspection and verification skills. I think these are all, uh, quite doable. I think all of these will still happen, uh, in the foreseeable future. Uh, we're going to have a collaborative project. So the way the project works is that you pick your own team within your section. Um, and you're going to work on a project for the entire quarter. Um, we want to emphasize growth mindset. So some of you might have had more internships than others. Some of you might have had, um, more experience of some specific computer science or software engineering areas. The important thing about growth mindset is to realize that everybody has room to grow, no matter where you are. Um, you want to, uh, do your best to improve, uh, from where you currently are. Also, student participation is very important. So I'm going to have a lot of these. Talk to your neighbor. Uh, tasks or discussion tasks where you need to do something in this lecture. Um, I know it's a little bit late, I guess. Maybe not. Um, but, uh, I recommend you to use this time as effectively as possible. So you have to be kind to have to be here for hours a week. Uh, so I would recommend you to use this time, really to, to activate your brain to see this. As, you know, your your bi weekly software engineering workout. Uh, to get some exercise in. Um, and very important. Uh, in software engineering, we don't always have wrong answers for many questions. That's not going to be a wrong answer. But even if there's a wrong answer, you want to know, right? So you shouldn't be shy and feeling like, oh, I'm not really sure I have my answers correct. You want to share your answer with your, uh, neighbor or, you know, with me as the instructor? Because that's the only way how we can learn. So we're not judging anybody for for answers that are not perfect. Uh, we're here to learn. Right. This is why we are here. Um, a little bit about me. So my first name is pronounced Tobias. It's a German first name. Uh, my last name is Daniel Schmidt. So, uh, in Ascii, it's spelled with the E, not just the U. Um, I actually did my PhD in software engineering, uh, at Carnegie Mellon. Uh, I've had the amazing pleasure to work with Clare West, who invented automated program repair. That's a technique that when your tests are failing, it will automatically generate a patch that passes all your tests. And David Carlin, who was the co-inventor of software architecture, we're going to have a lecture on this topic as well. My PhD topic was on automated bug finding and robotic systems. That sounds way more fun than it actually is. Um, and I also had a little bit of practical experience at NASA, JPL, uh, where I worked with the team that build the Musk's helicopter. Um, so that was a lot of fun. Um, we built a helicopter that flew, like, over 100 times on a different planet, which is kind of crazy if you think about this. Um, but, yeah, I've been, uh, an assistant teaching professor here since fall 2025. So I've not been here for very long. I sometimes still get lost on campus. So, uh, I'm not sure if all of the UCLA policies and courses. So please be a little bit forgiving with me, at least for a while. Um, and yeah, I'm incredibly passionate about teaching as it may be. Can tell. Um, so I applied to a lot of different teaching positions and then in the end made the decision between CMU and UCLA. And I felt like supporting the mission of a public school, uh, is much more fulfilling for somebody who cares about teaching. Uh, so this is why I'm here. Uh, in my free time, I like to do photography or play chess. Uh, I also love going footy. Uh, if you have any specific recommendations or you need any specific recommendations, let me know. Um. Okay. My promise to you in this class, uh, is that I want that everybody in this class is going to take very valuable and doable skills. So I personally value the durable skills over some of the kind of more immediate technology skills, because I think they will be more valuable. Um, I've designed this course, uh, based on a lot of, uh, pedagogical theories and software engineering research to ensure that it's as good as possible. Um, but whenever you feel like it's not working the way that you want it to, and you have a reasonable suggestion, I'm very happy to hear reasonable suggestions and adjust based on this. Um, I don't think we had any unreasonable suggestions for this course last quarter. We had some unreasonable suggestions on 35 L. Maybe it's just a student maturity thing, but, um. What I expect from you is that this only really works if you kind of follow these recommendations for studying that I'm giving you, right? Um, if I get the question the day before the midterm, I have not gone to any lecture. What should I do? Uh, how can I study for this class? Um, you're not going to get as good as an answer from me as if you ask this. Maybe next week. Right. Um, so be a little bit aware of of this. Also, um, I very strongly prioritize academic integrity and honesty. So, uh, we're going to have some policies on this. Uh, and, uh, also this is very important to me. You're going to have a very large team project component in this course. You're going to select your your team members, um, yourself. So you're going to be kind of responsible for picking the right teammates as well. But even if you somehow accidentally have picked the wrong teammates, uh, I want that everybody here see, is their, uh, obligation not just to themselves but also to their teammates. So be a good teammate. Be responsive to your teammates. Try to, you know, be supportive and kind to them to their respect and support. Um, that these are kind of my main expectations for you in this class. Questions? Yes. I think 5 to 6 is the recommendation. It's going to be a little bit larger than it might have been for a 35 L, because now you've been a little bit. Yeah, yeah. That's right. Yes. So, um. Yeah, because the way how this works is that all of the discussion time will be used for the project. Uh, we want you to, uh, pick students from the same discussion section. Uh, we've had some students who somehow went to the register and then swapped discussion sessions last quarter. That has somehow worked for some of them. Uh, if that is a concern for you, then, you know, reach out to the registrar. I don't have control over this. Um, that's outside of my control. But, um. Yeah. Any other questions? Cool. Then. The course policy. That's the most important one for generative AI. So, uh, my opinion on generative AI is a little bit split. Um, so I believe that it's not possible. And of course, like this to say you're not allowed to use generative AI, especially its last course. You want to go into the real world. Uh, but I also feel like I want to incentivize you to actually think yourself rather than, um, letting I do most of the work. Um, so the policy here is kind of going to be like a, like a mix of allowing you and not allowing you in a way that would tell you that you are allowed to use any generative AI tools that you want. Um, but you have to tell us the specific prompt you've used, the result you've gotten, and how you've critically engaged with the result. Uh, in the syllabus, that's going to be an example on how you do this with code. Because of code, it's maybe a little bit harder. Uh, if you have any questions about this, um, ask me to ask you to, um, but, uh, the most important insight here is that while we allow you to use generative AI, of course we're not going to grade the work that AI has done. So, uh, we are going to assess the work that you've done. So it's, let's say an a homework. Now, you were to say, okay, I've just put the homework description into generative AI and then submitted what the AI gave. That's not an academic integrity violation, but that still gives you zero points, right, for the project. If 90% of the code has been purely written by AI, you've not done much. Of course, they're not going to get as many points for this. Um, we want you to use these tools to increase their productivity. So you still should do the same amount of work as you would without the AI, just, you know, getting more done. That is how it's used in practice that developers do not use it to, uh, write the same amount of features in a shorter amount of time. No, they use, uh, they write more features in the same amount of time. Like this is how they use it in practice. And this is how we want you to use it in this course. Questions about this? Yes. Um, yeah. I'm curious about like, sort of. Yeah. The the philosophy of, like, using AI to like, get more done at the same time. Mhm. Like in theory this could be done by just like having an an I write a large portion of the code. Yes. Like a large portion of the design. That's right. Yes. Uh, yeah. So the, the way how this works is then you basically want to have a much larger system of more features than you would have otherwise. So if you are able to build a much, much more complex system with AI, then you will potentially receive a much better grade than somebody who builds a smaller system without AI. But if you use AI to, uh, let's say the only thing you do is orchestrate the agents, then you've not really done any software engineering work, right? You have just put one prompt into another system. You have kind of connected them. That's an amazing contribution for a different kind of class. If you're still going to be around in winter, you can take this class, um, carry natural book and AI at designing a new class in generative software development, where we teach exactly this because they're going to be around in winter. Take this class. In this class, you have to do most of the work. Uh, so then you then build these skills that can be amplified with AI, but you are still allowed to use them in any way that increases your productivity. And let's not be afraid that this way. Let's face it this way, if you can figure out how you can use AI to do more, you're very, very welcome to do this and to modify and annotate this. But if you want to use AI to get the same work done faster, then you might not get as good as a great. Okay, so given that, say, art. Like. Did the sides project comparing to another large side project? So my, um. The objectively correct answer would be no. Um, the issue is that this is potentially a little bit it's a bit harder for, you know, to to compare the work of such different teams. Um, let me talk with the Tas about how we how we can ensure that the answer will be yes. Um. Uh, because the answer should be yes, of course, because this is not an AI class. Uh, I just need to talk to the Tas. How? We're going to make sure that it's actually going to be. Yes. These are supposed to be on the grading. Yes. Yeah. So so last quarter, the guidance that students got on the rubric was maybe not as, uh, comprehensive as they would like to. We want to fix this this quarter. So we want to have a more kind of detailed rubric that students see. Um, okay. Any other questions about this? Is a good question. These are amazing questions. Okay. Cool. Yeah. So my personal recommendation is that when you use AI, you want to think about it as not being that guy, right? Who uses AI in a way. Oh, I just discovered this AI that gets my workout done much faster and more efficient, right? You, uh. Well, don't want to do this. Um, and I've been reading almost all of the research on this in an educational setting and currently writing an article about this that I will share with you. Once it's done, that identifies that students perceive AI to be very, very effective at getting their work done. So their productivity and their short term performance is much higher with AI. But the issue is that they've not learned as much when they view is the AI. So it does not actually boost their learning. It boosts their performance and their productivity according to tests, but it doesn't boost their performance. Uh, in a really, really large scale study on oh eight, almost 1000, uh, math students. They identified that unrestricted I use during this study time has significantly decreased the performance on then non eye exams by 17%. Seven. That's like four letter grades right. Uh that's crazy. Uh it also impairs a critical thinking. And uh, a study by anthropic that was done earlier this year, uh, identified that developers that used AI to solve tasks, they completely skipped the skill formation stage. So this is the bad about AI. The good is that, uh, many of these negative effects can be mitigated with instructor provided pedagogical restrictions. And these digital tutors that we're gonna provide to you for this class, they will have these pedagogical restrictions in place that reduce these negative effects, which means that I would recommend you, if you're not sure, to just use these digital tutors that we provide that have these restrictions in place. Um, if you want to use more, you know, production ready professional tools because you think that this helps you prepare for your next job, you are welcome to do so kind of at your own risk of reducing your learning. Um, but yeah, my recommendation would be to, um, uh, in a learning environment, use these pedagogically, uh, restricted tools. Um, and you also want to, uh, realize that in this class, it's not about productivity. It's not about the, um, how much code you write. It's about how much you've learned. Right? So you want to evaluate yourself on how much you have learned with these tools. And I've been using them a lot the past few weeks. I've been like a power user of Claude recently, and I can I kind of get it. It feels like you can probably you can do so much, but then you don't really know what you've done, right? Um, so I get it. But in the learning environment, you you want to focus more on how much you've grown your skills than how much you have growing the code that you produce, if that makes sense. Okay. So yeah. Also, in today's economy, um, it doesn't seem like a degree is enough to have a good career. When I was a student your age, uh, when I graduated, everybody got a high paying job. It seems like that's not really the case anymore. It seems like nowadays, um, it really depends on how much you've learned. Um, I'm not sure who already has a job offer. Okay, so some of you. That's great. That's great. I'm very happy for you. Uh, for the ones who don't have a job offer yet, I would recommend you to treat this as your opportunity to lift some weights so that you can then, uh, make yourself very attractive. Um. So make the most out of your education experience. Challenge yourself. And even if you already have a job offer, uh, you might want to, um, increase the skill as well, because what we've seen so far, um, is that the skill curve of AI has grown at a much faster rate than of humans over the same period of time, so it might not be sufficient to stay at the same skill level. Skill level. You might want to increase your skill even if you already have a job. Okay, so I should help you learn more, not spend less time on the same amount of work. That's my philosophy on this. We also have a we're going to have a lecture on specifically generative AI that I've currently placed at the very end of the course. If there's an interest in me moving just a little bit earlier because you want to get more experience with this, let me know and then we can move it a little bit earlier. Um, I think it makes sense at the end, but if you feel like you want to get this lecture a bit earlier, I'm happy to move it earlier. Okay. Laptop policy. Uh, my personal philosophy is that, uh, we want to treat these four hours per week as our productive time and to make sure that you're not distracting other students around. So there has been some research that identified that laptops distract students sitting behind or next to you if you're working on something that's not course related. So to make sure that everybody sitting around you is, uh, able to treat this as productive time. My policy is that you can always use it for note taking. You can always use it for using. Some of the tools are present for online searches, of course, for exit tickets, if you wish to use it for other things, let's say media or news or gaming or chatting with someone or homework for another class. Uh, I'm not sure if there are deadlines around 6:00 pm, but if, let's say you have homework, uh, this is what the last row is for. And since we have this big lecture hall, this is that's going to be enough space. And the last row, uh, uh, my colleague at CMU, he calls this the smoking section. This is the smoking section of the lecture. So if you wish to do this, please put yourself in the in the smoking section. Yes. Does that mean homework for this class? Can we can do. You. You can do whatever you want. You were in the front. Oh, in the front row. Oh, no no no no no no homework for this class. Also in the last row. That's also in the last row. Um, I don't think we have homework assignments due, like at the lecture. We'll see. Okay. But anyways, we know we're all going to have a lot of homework for this class. I think we have 2 or 3 homeworks. And the last quarter we had two homeworks. We might split them up into separate one so that they're more spaced throughout the, the quarter. Um, but we're not going to have a lot of homework. It's more a project centric course. Uh, not going to be like a homework every week. Okay. Yeah. My personal goal is to make sure that everyone learns as much as possible. So if you have any feedback on how I can better achieve this goal, then please let me know. If you spend too much time, if lectures are unclear, if you don't have any idea how to solve the homework assignments, if there are any team issues, please let me know. We've also created this digital tutor on teamwork that's still quite experimental. We'll see how this is going. But yeah, the earlier you let us know the the more time we have to fix this. So if there are any things that we should be aware of or any feedback, if you let us know earlier, will we have more time to, you know, respond to this? Okay. Active learning. This is amazing quote by Herb Simon, who, um, won the Turing Award and I think also the highest prize in, uh, psychology. Uh, the only one who did this, uh, he said something amazing. He said learning results from what the student does and thinks, and only from what the student does and things. And the goal of the instructor is just to, you know, try to facilitate this. So, uh, this means that you want to treat this as, you know, your, your weekly workout, not just sitting there listening, but trying to actively think about this, participate in all of the active class discussions. If I ask a question, uh, to the class, you want to try to really actively think about this and let us know your answer. Wrong answer, support learning and rarely going to be wrong. Answer the application about the stuff I don't even know. Anyways, um. Okay? Yeah. We'll have a team project. So the idea here is the complex software systems, um, cannot be developed by individual people, even with AI. Um, so we want you to learn the effective skill of collaborating with others to make design decisions together, distribute work tasks, review code, and, um, yeah. So you are going to do this in your discussion sessions and then we're going to have two main, um, deliverables, which is going to be the design talk at week four and then the final presentation and report in the last week with uh, presentations probably going to be in discussion sessions again. Um. It's going to be 5 to 6. Within the same section. You can pick your teammates yourself. Since this is a capstone course, uh, we want you to pick the teammates that you want. Um, if you have any trouble finding teammates, um, let us know that we can support you. But we are not going to assign you to a team. Which also means that if you are a team, um, you're not going to just randomly get assigned another person that you don't want. Um, but I will help you facilitate. But this is very important that this is going to happen in the discussion session this week. So you want to make sure that you're going to be in the discussion this Friday so that you can start the team formation process. Ideally, you want to think about who you want to work with, what kind of project you want to work with, and then the like. Real deadline for picking a team and a project will be before next Friday's discussion session. So this is when the real deadline is for when you should have a team and a project. Um, also, um, in this course in the capstone, um, we want to reward students who do more and make sure that the grades that students get somehow represent their own individual contribution more than in some other team projects. Which means that at the end of the course, we're going to have a peer evaluation, and we look at your individual contributions to assess how much you've contributed and if there's going to be a large difference and there's some consensus on this, then we'll adjust the grades accordingly. So you will get, um, group evaluations. And then we're going to have a somewhat significant, um, individual multiplier that will be applied based on, you know, uh, if you have been the only one who actually did anything in the project and everybody else was like, I already have a job, I don't need to do anything, then your guess, you know, your grade will reflect this, uh, that you have pooled your team or that you've now taken a back backseat. Um, the Tas will be mainly in charge for, uh, the grading of the project. So, um, if you have questions about this, please ask them to first, because they will be the ones who are primarily in charge. If somehow you feel like your to is not doing a good job, I think this quarter we're going to have pretty good Tas. Um, last quarter there was a bit strong variation, but this quarter, I think I think we'll, uh, I think we'll be fine. Um, um, but yeah, if there are any questions, then you please let me know. But first talk to your Ta because they they will know your project better. They will know. Yeah. They will be more in charge of the project than me. Um, okay. Questions on the team project. Cool. Um. Yeah. Here are some recommendations of what you might want to ask someone you want to work with. What are your work habits? Students have very wildly weight changing work habits. Some thrive on deadlines, and when there's no deadline nearby, they are like, oh my God, why do I even need to get up and work on it? Uh, some are the complete opposite. They're like, the closer they get to the deadline, the more anxious they get, and they can't make progress. So you want to make sure that you are in a team that somehow has somewhat similar working habits on this, or at least that you're aware of the differences in your working habits so that you can distribute your workload and your tasks in a way that everybody is happy with that. Uh, you want to, uh, make sure that you're on a team with somebody who has the same kind of programing language or technology you want to use, uh, so that not everybody has to learn new programing languages. You want to make sure that you have a passionate about the same kind of application that you find some time and place to meet regularly. Sometimes we have computers in this class, and then it makes sense for you to kind of make this explicit when you can work together, because, um, we don't want this to be a project where everyone is just completely working individually and there's no team collaboration. That's not really how software is built. So we want you to work on this really together. And the only way we can do this is if you find some common time to meet, either in person or on zoom or whatever you prefer. So I would recommend you to discuss these kinds of questions with other students in your discussion section. We're going to facilitate this on Friday. Um, and then hopefully you'll find a team. Of course, you're not going to find a team for every single question. Everybody has exactly the same answer. Right. So there's going to be a multi dimensional trade off optimization problem going on. Okay. Yeah. So the Tas are going to be in charge of their discussion sessions. Um, they're also in charge of grading for the discussion sections, but I want to give more concrete guidance to this. Last quarter there have been quite a bit of. Kind of contradictory guidance that I've given in what has actually happened. Uh, and I'm going to be in charge of administrative concerns, deadline extensions. If you are in some kind of emergency, we are able to give you deadline extensions. Um, so let us know. Um, generally we, uh, do this when there's some kind of like, doctor's note or like there's an actual, like, emergency. Um. Um. So if, let's say you wake up, um, in, um, yeah. Okay. Maybe not go into this example, but, uh, yeah. You want to go and have some kind of doctor's note, uh, to document your, uh, concern. Um, the best way to communicate with us is on Piazza, so we set up a piazza. You can then, um, link the homework or lecture or, uh, project. You want to ask this question about, um, if you want to ask a question that not everybody can see, I'm pretty sure everyone here has used Piazza before and knows how to configure the the visibility. This is usually better than email, because it's going to be easier for us to map you to a course and to have all of the, um, you know, uh, information in one place. Um, especially if you send me an email, I'm gone. I get, like, so many emails, you're not going to put 130 in the subject. I'm not going to know what this is about. So if you need to send me an email, please put 130 in the subject. Um. Okay. So this is how your grade is going to be determined. So 15% is going to be the midterm. Um then there's going to be 30% for the final 40% for the project. Uh, we might split up some of the I'm going to have to update this because this might be three separate homework or four separate homework assignments, depending on how this how we split them. But they're basically going to be the same work as last quarter just split over maybe multiple weeks. And then 5% is going to be the exit tickets. Um, yeah. So we would expect you to really attend all of these classes. Um, because that's, you know, that's what your tuition is going for, right? Like, why pay tuition if you're not going to actually use it? Right. Um, so there's no real remote attendance. The class will be recorded, but, um, exit tickets will only be accepted until the deadline. And, uh, I believe that the best way to learn is really to be here in person and interact with students. Because we have a lot of active collaboration tasks. It doesn't really work if you're not actually here. Um. Okay, cool. Any other logistical questions? This has been going on for a long time. Okay. Okay? Yes. The spec for the project. So we don't have a concrete list of specs of what the project should be. Uh, we're going to give you more guidance on this on Friday, but the, um, kind of high level idea of what the project should be about, it can be any kind of application. It can be a web app. It can be a mobile app. It can be a desktop app, it can be an online game. It can be anything that has some kind of design complexity. Uh, so this is a software engineering class. You need to write a design doc. So you need to have multiple components that somehow interact with the complexity should be in that. So this is not a invent your own algorithm and a component. And then glue some input and output into this algorithm. That's not what this class is about. Uh, but anything like that that has some kind of complexity is fair game. We're not going to give you specific features. We're not going to tell you what domain the app should be in, uh, or what type of software it should be. Uh, I mean, even if you want to do some kind of IoT system, I could imagine if you have the hardware, you could make this work. I've not seen this work, but I could imagine that it works. So anything is fair game as long as it has some kind of design complexity. Not just component complexity. Um. Yeah. Does that answer the question? Awesome. Other questions. Yes. The format of the exam will be an on paper exam. The midterm will be here at the time on the syllabus. So it's going to be in a lecture. Um the format will be um, a you will have one page of a cheat sheet that you are allowed to bring to the exam, that you can put anything on this cheat sheet that you want. Um, but it's going to be one page handwritten back and front and the same for the final. So students will ask us. I'm pretty sure there will be 1 or 2 students who will ask us, can we get two pages for the final? No, that's going to be just one. That's going to be just one, because we expect you to learn more until the end of the class than just, you know, the second half. Uh, so yeah, spec is going to be the same. It's going to be on paper. Uh, there will be questions on any kind of topics, and the final will be cumulative. So, um, yeah. Format. It will be kind of a mix with leaning more towards, uh, questions that reduce the burden on the Tas because, you know, they are they are busy with administering all of the project. Um, I believe the best way to study is independent of the type of question they will be asked. Um, but if you're curious, if it gives you more mental freedom to be prepared for this, this is going to be the answer. Um, no, I don't think yeah, I don't think we'll release the previous exam because, um. Yeah. Oh, I forgot to say this. So this course has been developed in collaboration with Professor Kim, and we are trying to synchronize our different versions of the course. Um, so there's also some credit to be given to a lot of the work that Professor Kim has been doing on this course. Yes. Okay, so you have to use the kind of writing device that you will use in the exam and then use this on your cheat sheet as well. The reason for this is that the type of students who usually ask this question are the ones who have the handwriting that's hard to read in the scan. That looks actually very amazing. So you might not actually, maybe I'm going to, I don't know. I generally don't like the idea of having print printed cheat sheets, because many students then, uh, feel like they can share this with other students, and then you're not going through the process of building your own cheat sheet. Um, and we can't we don't have the time to come in and compare all of this. There are reasons for this rule, even though maybe for your specific situation that might not necessarily be the right approach, but to balance a lot of different concerns, this is going to be the rule. Uh, if you really want to argue about this. There is no okay. The answer is no. The answer is no. The answer is no. No precedent for this. Um, okay. Other questions? Nice men. Now we're going to talk about one of the topics that is completely under taught in college. And I believe will probably become much, much more important in the future. Let me tell you about a case study outside of software. Um, that has been the absolute running gag in Germany for decades. It's gone. It's the airport PR, the Berlin Brandenburg airport. It's an airport that was planned many, many decades ago, but there was no public funding. And at some point they had the funding and they wanted to build this airport to replace the existing airports. And what they did was they wanted to save a lot of cost. So they used the designs that were created decades ago, and then they just built this airport. And they had so many floors you can't even imagine. Some of the escalators didn't make it to the ground. How did this happen? Uh, but most interestingly, um, they're after they built the airport, they realized it doesn't actually have the capacity for the A380 to operate on this airport, because this aircraft wasn't invented at the time. The original designs were created. And it's so large that a normal kind of airport design doesn't fit the A380. So they had to completely redesign it. So they works. It was delayed by, I think, almost 20 years or something like this. Like on the day before the official opening, they realized we don't even have a roof. We don't have fire protection because our fire protection law has changed. So, so many things have changed that, uh, they have to completely redesign everything. What can you learn from this? As a software engineer, talk to us. Talk to your neighbor. We also let everybody know what it was like. I feel like I. Can be in office hours. What's that? Yellow. So what's your yellow? Oh my yellow. That's a great question. I haven't checked in a while, but the answer is yes. The answer's yes. What is going on? I think the last time I played on leeches was, like, around 1700 or 1600. Okay, I think I'm around. That's perfect. We can play chess in office of. Okay. What are your thoughts? What kind of general design principle or thoughts we have? Yes. Uh, this one's, like, easy to feed forward to new changes. Mhm. So I can bring in the future changes and to is like for because to me I feel like a physical building is in comparison to the underlying structure of the program. Mhm. Are both hard to change once you start building it. So like probably you have to consider beforehand for those larger decisions. Like you have to consider. Okay, so there are two really good answers. There was, uh, we have to design for change, so we have to design our plans in a way that if the world changes the needs of our customers change. We can accomplish this easily. And the second one, uh, was we need to think about what is actually needed before we built the system. Yes. What was your thoughts? Yeah. So go back to your. First you have the and. Mhm. That's right. Exactly. Let me give you a new one. Okay. Yes, I think so. Um, real world proof of, uh, this, uh, of, like, the experience being nicer when you think ahead is, like, with Russ, how it forces you to to, like, consider all the possible, you know, issues ahead of time. Um, I think everyone loves Russ because you don't have to go back and spend all the time fixing it, and it makes it, like, way nicer. Yeah. That's a that's a great answer as well. Yes. Yeah. So there are a lot of learnings from this. The one that is most important for this lecture is that you have to consider requirements before implementation. And like one of the students said they just skipped the requirement stage. So they just jumped straight into development or design. Uh, if you do this you often run into issues in software as well. So the requirements elicitation process ensures that we've built the right system. What engineers are usually very good at and building the system right. They're often not good at figuring out what's actually needed. So we have to force ourself to think about what is actually the user need. What is the problem we try to solve? What is, uh, the space of all possible solutions that do what our business wants? So the requirements, uh, describe what the system does without specifying the solution. Uh, so it helps us also design tests so that we know that we've built the right system from these requirements. We can then directly infer how to test the system if they're done right. So in software engineering we have very similar activities to civil engineering. We just don't always go through them in 100% sequence. But we have requirements analysis where we try to identify what should be built. We have design. How do we build this? We have development. That's what you have probably spent most of your time with. And then we have testing where we try to test that we have built the right system and then we deliver it to the customer. And in software engineering in the early days, what they've done is they've, uh, used what we call the waterfall model. Well, uh, they've first collected all of the requirements, and then they have done all of the design and have done all of the implementation, and then all of the testing and then deploy them. And five years later, the customer sees that this is not actually what they really need. Uh, they're meant something completely different. There was, uh, misunderstood. Uh, so now we don't go through them and sequence for, uh, the entire system, but we still go through these phases or activities. So whenever you're building software, you want to not skip the requirements stage. You do not want to skip the design stage, and you don't want to, uh, deploy without testing. Um. A CrowdStrike did this a year ago, a tool when they skipped the testing stage, and then the entire world economy was down for a day or so, in case you remember. So, uh, it's important for you to realize that all of these activities are important. And, um, you have to use systematic tools appropriate for the context for all of them. When we discuss the difference between requirements and design. For some students, it's very intuitive. For some students, it takes a little bit of time. The idea is that requirements, uh, focusing on how we develop, uh, deliver value to the customer. So we leave the design open. So the choices of how we build this, we leave this open for interpretation so that we can, um, separate the definition of what is needed from how we're going to implement this. For example, here we have a requirement the system must calculate and display the shortest route between a user's current location and the destination. That would be a requirement that does say what should be implemented without saying how it's implemented. And the design decision would be implement Dijkstra's algorithm to, uh, calculate the path, represent the map as weighted graphs. So this is an implementation of this requirement. Or the system must ensure that only registered and verified users can access the financial dashboard. This is very clearly phrased just purely as a requirement. We've not made the decision of how we implement this. The weight, how we implement this could then be with OAuth two or Json web tokens. Um, so the goal of requirements elicitation is to describe purely what is needed and leave it open for how we do this, so that we can make sure that the right people are making the design decisions. So we want to prevent premature constraints. If in our requirements stage we make design decisions, then we constrain the design space and then we might miss a much better solution. If we already say we want to use Https, we want to use, um, Json web tokens. So we want to keep the design space precisely what is defined by user value without making a design decisions. We also want to preserve flexibility and agility. If we at some point need to change something, it's important for us to know what is the design and what is what the user actually needs. What space do we have? Uh, so design decisions are supposed to change frequently, while the requirements should always be in line with what the, uh, user needs. Uh, so the requirement is strictly about the what and then the design is about okay. Hope this is intuitive. If not, please raise your hand. Okay. Any questions? Cool. Awesome. One way that is the most common way. How requirements are specified in the real world, especially in agile projects, is using user stories. User stories are an informal and lightweight description from the perspective of a user. For example, this is a user story for the airplane example. As an airline, I want to connect gangways from b r the airport to my A380 planes so that I can offer a long, long distance flight to Berlin with many passengers on the plane. User stories always follow this, uh, three part framework of. As a user group, I want to perform an action so that I can achieve a goal. The last part is to provide context so that the engineers understand why this is delivering value, so that they can understand how to maximize value for the customer. The first part is to identify the group of user that is receiving this value. Most software systems have more than one user group, so you don't just want to see as a user, you want to say what kind of user. For a digital learning system like Bruin learn. Uh, there are students that professors. That's their readers. There may be some university administrators. They all have different needs, and we want to express what role the user has. When we describe the requirement and then the main requirement is described in the I want to perform portion of the user story. So this is where the main requirement lives. This. So that is just the context. So this is not actually describing the real requirement. The role requirement is here. And the textbook definition of a user story is basically that it's a placeholder for a conversation. So these are specifically intentionally kept somewhat vague and abstract so that you can then talk to the real customer or to the product manager or the product owner to then fill in the details for these user stories. Um, but to still allow us to describe concrete criteria that define the scope of what's an acceptable solution, we then here's another example. As a student, I want to update my homework submission before the deadline so that I can change it if I find a mistake. I think that's a user story everyone of you might have encountered before, but to then identify what is an acceptable solution to this, we define what is called acceptance criteria. This is the main body of the user story with these three different elements. And then we define the acceptance criteria that follow a given when then format. And the idea of acceptance criteria are that they precisely define all of the criteria that can be used to evaluate whether a solution is correctly implementing this requirement. So for example, for this student student that wants to update the homework submission before the deadline so that they can change it if they find a mistake, one potential. Um. Acceptance criterion would be given. The student submitted the assignment and the current time is before the oh, there's a the to much before the deadline. When the student navigates to the submission page, then there should be an update button. All right. So this follows the given when then precondition then the action then the post condition. Um. Is that enough? Is that enough? Is every solution that implements this acceptance criterion uh, really implementing the user need? Do we need any other criterion? Yes. Uh. Hmm. Yes, exactly. So we've just said that there is a button, right? We just said there is the button. We have not said what the button actually does. So we need another acceptance criterion that says, given the current time as before the deadline, when the student clicks on the update button and selects a new file, then the submission record should show the new file. Is this enough? Yes. You just keep getting more and more granular forever. Like. Like, not forever. Not forever. Because we still have to stay within the space of requirements. We're not making design decisions at just describing what should define acceptable solutions. How do you like? How do you strictly draw the line of what constitutes. So you want to identify the most important requirements. Um, you want to create the list of criteria that, uh, maybe a developer might miss. Right. So ideally you can derive tests from this. You want to basically cover enough acceptance criteria that deriving tests from these, that follow these steps will then be sufficient. Yes. So are these two given together? If you only get this. Oh, okay. So the goal of acceptance criteria for a user story is that you have a list of acceptance criteria, uh, that are basically logically combined with an end. So it has to serve. It has to conform to the previous. And also this one. You have a list of these this triplets. Okay. Um. Yeah. So we also might want to add something like, uh, given the time is after the deadline, then the button should not be there, right? That would be a need from not the student. The student might still want to update, but there would be a need from the instructor or to net. Uh, so you can come up with a lot of different acceptance criteria for this, but the goal is to precisely define what are the valuable elements. And the framework that helps us create good user stories is called the invest principle. You'll see a lot of acronyms in software engineering. It stands for independent, negotiable, valuable, estimable, small and testable. Independent means that all of our individual user stories should be defined and implemented individually. So if a user story completely overlaps with another user story, it's hard for us to estimate how long it takes to implement, because it depends on whether the other user story was implemented. First. Uh, it enable it does not enable us to schedule them individually. We want to pick the user stories and implement them in any order that would be ideal. So we want them to be as independent as possible. We can't always reach this stage. So sometimes we have to say this depends on that. But then it's always better to make this dependency explicit negotiable. That basically means that it's still only within the space of requirements. We're not in the space of design decisions. We just describe what what when to capture the user's needs. Valuable means that it delivers value and specifically value to some user group, not to the developer. Something like as a developer, I want the code to look clean so that I can easily understand what the code does is not a user story. A user story has to deliver business value to an actual user. It has to be estimable. We want to estimate these user stories to give our user an impression of how long it takes to implement them. We can only do this if the scope is clear and well defined. So if it's ambiguous how long it takes to implement this user story, we can estimate it. It has to be small a user, so it should be a small chunk of work. Usually it has to fit within one iteration in an iterative process, and we want to make them as small as possible while them still being valuable. So we have this kind of conflict between small and valuable. If we add more things, that becomes more valuable, but then it grows larger. So we want to split user stories in the smallest possible user stories that are still valuable. That's the goal and very important. They have to be testable. We have to be able to objectively quantify all of the acceptance criteria. If I give you an implementation and the acceptance criteria, you should be able to objectively say yes or no. This is implemented or not. Um, questions about these. Okay. Let's look at some examples. Let's look at some examples of user stories that violate these, uh, principles. As a student, I want direct integration with Piazza grade school, Google Drive and Zoom so that I do not need to open them in separate pages. And some acceptance criterion for this, which in this principles is violated. Talk to your neighbor. So it's. All my own is with you, Jackson. In my opinion, I think getting is a bit of a different thing. I think I do. By the way, do you remember this one? Yeah, I do. I remember most of this was because I was going to raise my hands to two really tall, but those were not on the slides. This one, the mid-tum. These are you a midtum? These are three of these? Yeah, I know, but at the time it was all you got, so. Yeah. Yeah, yeah, that was okay. What do you think? Which principle is violated? By the way you want to read the article on, on the webpage on those on the, the the one on the book. But anyways. Uh, what which one do you think is violated? Yes. It's more why you have four different platforms to worry about. That's like requirements. That's right. Yes. So we can split this into individual user stories that are still valuable. Adding Piazza integration without the other ones is already valuable on their own. So we can split it into smaller, still valuable user stories. Um, how about this one as a student? I want the website to support Https so that my data is safe. Given a student has an active internet connection, when the student attempts to connect to Bruin, learn using any other network besides Https. Then the website should respond with an error. Yes. Um, it's like design. Not required. Exactly. Yes. This is design, not requirements. This is not negotiable. Https is a design decision. Rick. The real requirement would have been as a student. I want my data to be not readable by anybody else than me or another, uh, authorized user. Right. So you want to describe them in a way that do not encapsulate the design decision of using Https. There could be other print, other design decisions we could make. I mean, objectively, Https is the right choice. But, um, you know, in in potential future, we might come up with a new network protocol that's better than Https. Right. So we could come up with different design decisions now. As a student, I want to take 130 in spring so that I can get a computer science. I've heard this user story quite a bit with PD requests. Uh uh, and the acceptance criterion is given the student has not taken CSE 130 before and is not enrolled yet. When the student clicks on the CSE 130 page and Bruin learn, then there should be an enroll button. Talk to your neighbor, which in principle is violated. Yeah, I guess. Yeah. I wish I could say, you know. Uh, I think it's. Okay. Who would propose an answer? Which one's violated? Yes. Uh, I would say that. It was violated at this time. So? So. Ability to control in. Depend on whether it's being offered and. Oh, okay. Okay. That would be a correct answer. If any of these user stories on, like, uh, measuring capacity would be in the backlog. So, uh, independent can only be judged for a set of user stories. So when we want to say a user story is not independent, we have to pick a specific user story in the set of user stories to say this is what it depends on. Um, so these are all related. Right? So they're all in one backlog. There is no user story in this backlog that it depends on. So this is very important. We've seen this in in some of the exam mistakes that um independent can only be judged when you say, okay, there's a specific user story that you have to mention as this one is as it depends on. Yeah. Uh, questions on this. Okay. Any other? Yes. We have an idea. Like prerequisites and also. Okay. Um. I. Would disagree for the reason that this specific acceptance criterion that is listed here. That one is testable. We can test that when a student has not taken 130 before and is not enrolled that then they, uh, there should be an enroll button. This one can be tested. Um. But yes, there's another problem with it. It's not really. Why not? I mean, the bug could be there. Oh, yeah. That's exactly the point. We are not capturing the actual user need. The user need is not that. There should be a button the user need instead. You know, the buttons should be there only for these kind of students. And it should be actually help students enroll in the course. Right. So that is the actual user need. So this one is not valuable because just having an arrow button on its own is not valuable. So we have to add more acceptance criteria for this user story to make it valuable. Okay. Does that make sense? Yes. So are we using these? Great question. Uh, so when we evaluate user stories, we, uh, we use the main body of the user story to understand the context. The acceptance criteria are what define the actual scope of the user story. So even though this user story says I want to take 130, uh, the actual acceptance criteria accept solutions that do not capture the main user need, which is therefore not valuable. So we judge user stories as defined by the acceptance criteria. The main body gives us an idea of what this is about. What's the reason why this is valuable? Or uh, what kind of user is doing this? But yeah, we're judging it mostly based on the acceptance. We do not ignore the first main body, but we we assess them on the scope that is defined by the acceptance criteria. Really important point. Yes. Here, they ask you. Hmhm also provide you with the. Why are you the one? Okay. Come on. So usually the users don't either. The users don't even know what they want. You have to go through very, very challenging processes. Uh, Karin Attenberg, uh, gives this a talk on, uh, outcome driven innovation a few times a year. That is amazing for this. How do you identify what the user actually needs? And users will often give you these design decisions and say I want https I want, but that's not usually what they really need, right? It's your job as a requirements engineer to identify what the user actually needs. They're not going to do this in this class though sadly I really want to do this with like a custom LLM that has the requirements and act like a user. But we're not going to do this this quarter. I'm not going to do this this quarter as a T.A. I want the characters in scan documents to be recognized automatically at high accuracy, so that I do not need to manually recognize the students handwriting, with the exception of the given a handwritten student solution. When this something is uploaded, than a text document is created that correctly reads the hand written document with high accuracy. Which exceptions? Which investor material is violated? Talk to your neighbor. Uh, if the. Yes. No, it's not small. It's not small. Oh, yes. Whatever you need to read to me. No. This is what happens in life. That's a good answer. It's not the correct answer. Okay, so the answer was this one is not small. And I'm pretty sure some students in 35 have actually said this. I'm not sure who did this, but, uh, so we actually these were 35 L midterm questions. Um, um, so most yes, you already have reached, uh, really deep level of understanding. The, um, small criterion is not, uh, violated because, eh, it could be that there is some library that I can just implement, like import and c, uh, and c we can't really split it into a smaller user story. So small is very, very context dependent. It doesn't necessarily say that. Um. It's objectively a short period of time that it takes to implement. Small is only bolded for the pragmatic purpose that we can't actually split it into a smaller user story, and at least I can think of a smaller, still valuable user story. Uh, maybe if you could, then you would still get the points in the exam. Um, but I can think of a smaller user story that is still valuable. Um, yes. Not. It's not. What estimate? Why is it not estimable? Just this. Description alone doesn't necessarily tell me how long it would take. Why not? Because the task itself has multiple components. I'm writing and. Has enough supporters that could be done in a few different ways that it's. That's true. Does anybody have a know the answer? Why? It is almost impossible to estimate this. Yes. Hmm. Uh oh. Okay. You have to answer. It's really just manually. Uh, sorry. The, uh. I recognized something automatically at a high accuracy is something that can take a lot of training, a lot of time. And so, um, it doesn't really talk about. A constraint on how much time they're going to spend on it, and it could take them ages and ages and ages before they reach an optimal solution. That's right. Yeah. Uh, it's also not estimable because and the most correct answer here would be it's not testable, but it's not estimable because it's not testable. High accuracy is very, very ambiguous, right. For us to think of a solution. What does high accuracy mean? I mean, 90%, 100%, 99%, 95%, 80%, 50%, uh, depending on this threshold, it will take you a long time. If it's 50%, you can just use some library. If it's 100%, you have to let PhD students work over the next ten years to create a new solution that does accurate, uh, 100% optimal handwriting recognition. Right? Uh, so estimable and testable often, not always go hand in hand. It's if we have unclear criteria for defining what is success, then it's not testable. And that often means that all of the potential interpretations could then vary a lot in how long it takes to implement them. Yes, they also feel like. Oh, that. That is even better. I like this answer. Uh, it does not define the character. I said. Maybe it's, uh, it's much easier for Latin characters, but it's really, really hard for Chinese characters. Maybe it's easy for Korean characters, but it's really, really hard for Hindu characters. Um, so, um, yeah, this is why, uh, yeah. You often have, uh, them violated to not always sometimes, uh, let's say, um, when you are quite you out of something like, uh, this looks good, right? This is not testable, but it's often estimable because often the definition of what looks good or has has a nice look and feel or has modern design, right? They are not testable, but they're often still estimable because depending on your definition of modern, it still takes with the same amount of time to implement is just going to implement something else. This doesn't always go hand in hand, but often. User stories are user centric, they force you to think of what the user actually needs. Which is really important because you want to deliver value to the user. It gives you flexibility and agility. It can be edit, modify, delete it throughout the development process that can be implemented in any order possible. They give you traceability of requirements. If you implement this in a pull request, you can say this implements user story X. And then you know exactly that this user story has been implemented. You know the code that implements it. And when you look at the code, why has this implemented the way it has? Then you can identify the user story that implements that traceability of requirements, often very important in practice. Okay. Unfortunately, we don't have time to go through this today, but we're going to do this on Thursday. You do the rest on Thursday, so you can select your exit tickets. And if you have any other questions, I'll still be here for a few more minutes. Oh, uh, exit tickets often have a password that I know. No password. Okay, then. That's good. Well, somehow I had some challenges with this in 35, but, um. Any other questions? Oh. Thank you. I'm not really. I'm not offering. Um, have you filled up this, um, enrollment consideration form or something? Was there one for this class that was released? Oh, I don't know. Um, the general ACR, like the engineering department has something that I heard of. That. Yeah, I can feel that. Okay. Uh, and you should also send me an email. And in your email, you say that you have been here and and asked me about this. Uh, I will talk to student affairs, but we can do how much we can over enroll the class. Uh, obviously, the room has capacity. Um, but we also don't want to overload the Tas too much, I guess, because as a team project, one more student doesn't really make more incredible grading effort. We'll see. Uh, I'm not going to say yes, but I'm also not going to say I'm. It's more likely than not. It's more likely than not. Okay, cool. I think. Okay. Yeah. So you will automatically get an order response when you do this. For me to ignore the auto response. Okay. Um, I actually, I'm not in the course. I don't know what email I'm supposed to. Oh. Um. Oops. You can find my name on my web page. It's just my last name at, uh, at UCLA dot. Edu. Okay. Um, yeah. So you can just Google my name. Okay. I'll go. Um, so, uh, assuming I can get in, what should I do for the exit ticket? Um, I'll fill it up in an email. Maybe. Oh, sure. Sure. That's even better. That's that's perfect. I like this because it's a student who is eager to work. I love this. You're going to get your feedback. Uh, not a promise, not a promise. So other than emailing you, is there anything else I need to do? Um, you might want to still fill out this, uh, ACR. Yeah. All right. Just so that they know, um. Hey, listen, um, can I audit the class? Because, of course, electrical engineering. Of course. Yeah. Just send me an email that you want to be added to Bruin learn. And then I'm going to add you to Bruin Learn as an observer. Um, yeah. You can always add here in the lectures. Uh, we're going to make the learning material accessible to you via Bruin. Learn. That is totally fine. Um, what you should not do is, uh, find a team or do the homework. Uh, but anything else? You always work. I mean, we have so much space, right? So, yeah. You're always welcome here. Yeah. I'll send you an email. Awesome. I'm going to work as a software engineer. Just amazing. That's great. Yeah. More students in the lecture hall. We have space, right? We have space. Thanks. Yeah. Hey, you have a question? It's my last quarterly, so I was on the list. But then. I, like, disappeared so I could go to the PTA or something. Uh, yeah. If if it's the last quarter. Yeah. Um, I'm a senior. Yeah. Uh, yeah. Well, yeah, you should definitely email, um, Student affairs about this. Okay. Um, they might just add you. Okay. So. Okay. And then, especially if it's your last word. Is this how you see my job? Yeah, yeah. Oh, yeah. Then I mean, there's no way, like like. Okay. Sounds good. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Message them and message me, and then we'll look at it. Awesome. Thank you.