[Auto-generated transcript. Edits may have been applied for clarity.] Were also. Released the. Um. 35 l fall 2025 midterm. So that that's actually going to be so fun because you're going to see you're going to see. What the other students have been learning and that it's basically similar to what you're learning. Um, but. Yeah. So the, um, the user story question will be very similar to the fall 2025 CSS 35 L midterm. So if you want some practice kind of release that and then you're going to be. Super well prepared for the user story question. Um. And yeah, the other questions, I guess. I'm mostly similar to the. Yes. Not very strict at all. Uh, so the the strictness on the Java code will be that a reasonable person understands what you wanted to say, and there's no ambiguity and what you wanted to. Right. Um, if you are not using the right term, but it's, uh, let's say the you wanted to use appends and you do say append or the other way around. Don't I don't actually remember, you know, uh, then we're not, we're not we don't we're not going to kill. Well, you should kind of try because, you know, great. Us humans and, uh, humans often have a hard time understanding things that are not, you know, what they should be. Um, uh, so you should you should try to be as close to Java as possible. But if you if you have a small slip up, we're not going to punish you for it because this is not a Java class. This is Java class. So. German humor. German humor. Um, okay, let's talk about testing today and testing us a. I'm sorry, I forgot to start recording. Testing is a super important topic. And to illustrate why. Let me tell you a story. So once upon a time, in the kingdom of Wall Street, there was a knight. The knight was called Knight capital. This is Knight Capital. Um, they are or they were, um, a high frequency stock trading company. So high frequency stock trading works this way that they buy stocks low and then like a few milliseconds or seconds later, they sell them for a tiny profit for a really minuscule, tiny profit for, uh, they basically try to predict which stocks go up and down and, you know, they buy and sell accordingly. Um, and for 17 years they've tried to build this large empire, and they became the largest trading house on Wall Street in 2012. They were making up around 17% of the entire stock trading volume on the major stock exchanges. Uh, which is around $121 billion a day, which is crazy, right? Um, not sure if anybody here in the audience does stock trading on this side, but, uh, I would guess if you do, you do not trade at $21 billion a day. And if you do, then I don't know why you are here. Uh, but, uh, on August 1st, uh, in 2012, uh, they tried to release a new software version. Um, and I don't know why. Click. That's not working today. They try to release a new software version of the trading program that should support a new feature that the stock exchange somehow is, um, worth adding. Uh, I don't remember the exact details. It was like some kind of new, um, I think, um, off stock exchange, stock pool trading system or whatever. Um, and on at 8 a.m., everybody in the company got this, uh, set of mysterious warning emails. Uh, but nobody cared. I mean, if you get a warning email that something's wrong at 8 a.m., you know, why would you care? Why would you care? So 9:30 a.m. the stock market opens just as basically every day. Uh, 9:31 a.m. A Knights trading program started flooding Wall Street. Uh, they sent buying orders, uh, at the volume of $148 million a minute, which is crazy. Um. Two minutes later. Uh, it hasn't stopped. It keeps buying. It keeps buying. Everybody on Wall Street. Uh, is wondering why it hasn't stopped. Uh, they make up around 50% of all trades. Uh, uh, you know the opening. Well, most of the trades are happening, so that's that's kind of crazy. Um, so what does Night Capital, uh, do they think? Okay, well, that there must be some kind of bug in our trading system. So, uh, let's figure out what's going on. Uh, let's maybe roll back to a previous version. Right? That's kind of what you're doing when you're buying. You know more than you want to. Uh, so they try to roll back, um, and suddenly that trading program buys at eight times the volume. Uh, and it turns out this is because they had eight servers. Uh, and seven servers had the correct version. Uh, the eight server had a, uh, older version that has not reached, uh, received a specific patch yet. Uh, so when they rolled back, they were suddenly losing money at very, very high volume. Because all of this, all of us were executing the faulty code. Uh, and all of this, all of us were executing this piece of code. Uh, okay. Well, so this next slide, uh, 28 minutes later, Knights figures out how to actually stop that program, which is not easy because that's not usually a, like, shut off button. Um, in these 28 minutes, they lost $440 million while they had, I think, around $300 million or $200 million in cash or cash reserves. So that basically bankrupted the entire company. Um, the bug looked like this. Uh, they had an old feature flag, um, that, um, uh, activated a Powerpack code that was supposed to simulate a very stupid trader that is trading against them, that is buying high and selling low, and that that does lose money. Um, that was dead code. That was that was not activated for nine years. Um, but the new feature they implemented use the same feature flag. So when they activated this new feature flag, suddenly this also reactivated the nine year old dead code that, uh, then, uh, yeah, put it in the Guinness Book of Records as the most expensive software failure in human history. Um. What kind of software engineering principle could we invent that we all follow so that we don't lose $440 million in 28 minutes? Because that doesn't really look great on the word resume. Talk to your neighbor. You know. I got some new candy. New candy? Uh, that does not have milk. It's just hard candy. So, um. You also don't think we're actually. Who? Okay. Any ideas? Yes. Uh, it's like a sandbox and. Different environments. Sandbox. What do we do in the sandbox? We roll out before we go to ponds. I don't know how that works in my training, but yes. So we try to test in a separate environment. Right. So we want to, uh, test our code before we deploy. Any other ideas. Yeah, it's doing great. There are some approaches. Some of my friends have been doing research on this. Um, they're not as easy to port across different languages, but yes, that would be great. If we have an automatic static analysis tool that can figure out. Yes. Yeah. Delete the dead code, right? Uh, so if we have code that we don't need, that could potentially, you know, bankrupt our company. Maybe we should. We should just delete it. Uh, and, um. Yeah. Figuring out where is that code that that is kind of easy. That is it pretty easy. Okay, so we have had three amazing approaches. The one we're going to talk about today is going to be testing. We want to test before deployment. Uh so we want to create a lot of test cases that test our, uh, application, different kind of inputs that we feed in our application. And then we'll compare it to expected outputs to identify which tests pass or fail. Testing. The definition of testing is that it's the, uh, execution of a program with selected inputs in a controlled environment with assertions on its behavior and output. Um, so it's execution of the program. It's what we call dynamic analysis. You can only run testing by the definition of testing. If you actually have an environment in which you can run the program. Uh, this, uh, you know, not as easy for a stock trading platform because you actually, you know, need to somehow test that you are sending buy and sell orders and there are going to be some techniques on test. So we're going to learn later. Not today, not today, but, uh, at some point in the future, uh, either. Yeah, uh, the next week or the week afterwards. Um, and um, you cannot actually test the program exhaustively. So most programs that we deal with have a new infinite or actually infinite, uh, input range. Uh, so you have to specifically select some inputs, uh, and then you have to put them in a controlled environment where you can observe what the software is doing. So observability is very important for testing. You can only have assertions in something you can actually observe. Uh, and then the whole point of testing. And so we say this is the expected behavior. And then we have assertions that check that this behavior is correct. Uh, usually we do this by checking the outputs of our program, but we could also check some, uh, other properties that are not actually outputs of the program. The basically three goals of testing. The two main goals are, of course, revealing bugs. That's the whole point of testing. Um, but testing can only prove the existence of bugs. It cannot prove the absence of bugs. Um, it's dynamic analysis. And as you may have learned in your theory of computation class, uh, there are, uh, undecidable problems. Uh, and this is a semi decidable problem. Um, so, right, this theorem says every single interesting property of a program and a non-trivial property, a non-trivial properties any property that is not always true or false. So any property that is not always true or false, uh, cannot be, uh, correctly verified on, uh, source code. Um. So we want to find bugs. We also want to document what our code should do. So when you get your first job and you join a project and you want to identify what what does this program actually do? Looking inside the test, it's going to be a great place because the tests tell you exactly what the code should do. Um, and because they are executed, you know that they are actually not outdated. They are correct. It's executable. Executable specification. Um. Can anybody think of a third reason why tests are great besides these two? Any other reasons why tests might be great, even if they're not finding bugs? Even if they're not. Even if we already understand what the code does, code tests have another advantage. Yeah. We could use them for profiling or for for checking nonfunctional properties. That's right. Yeah. Um, any other reasons? Any other? Yes. Can rewrite the internet we can reuse. I'm not sure if I understand the point. Mhm. Okay. So you can we can reuse the testing framework, uh, for other parts of the software development. That's right. Uh, I think the main reason why we write tests, uh, is. That it gives us confidence that the test cases that we have built. Uh. Uh, correct. Um, it gives us the confidence to make changes, uh, without having to manually verify that it's still doing what it's supposed to do, uh, so that our limited cognitive, um, uh, load can be focused on actually solving the problem. And then we have tests that, uh, give us confidence that we've not completely messed up. And our cognitive load and the cognitive load of our teammates, that's going to be very, very valuable. So, uh, you can think of tests as cognitive offloading. They reduce your cognitive load so you can focus more on the design. Um, and then separately, you focus on the on the testing. Of course. Okay. Uh, there has been a lot of industrial and academic, um, uh, research that, uh, describes the effectiveness of testing. So I think when I was an undergrad, there were still, uh, somehow questions whether the tests should be run by some companies and still a lot of companies that don't really do this. But there's literally no reason why, when you are starting a company or when you are, uh, developing software, that you should not use testing. I think everybody should use testing. It's one of the most commonly used quality assurance, uh, technique in conjunction with code reviews and code inspections. Um. Think about the theory of quality assurance. There are two kinds of quality assurance. There's verification and there is validation. We often call this v and v verification and validation. Verification is have we built this system right. So this is what testing can do. So we have a specification. And then we check whether the implementation conforms to our specification. Uh did we built the right system. That's often the more interesting question because this is the question has the this the specification we've built actually solve the real world problem? Can real people use the software that we've built to solve their problems to help with their tasks? This is what, uh, manual testing does. So when you, uh, put your, uh, system in front of an actual user or somebody who understands the actual user, uh, this is not what we are going to cover today. We're going to focus on the verification part of, uh, testing. Um, some people confuse testing with debugging, so I wanted to clarify what the difference is. Testing is the means of detecting and revealing errors. Debugging starts once we have revealed the error. So debugging is the process of tracing the error to its source and then fixing it. Um, so we are not going to call it debugging if we haven't seen a symptom yet. We only call it debugging when we've, uh, detected that there's a fault. And then we're diagnosing and correcting it and tracing it to its root cause testing is finding, uh, detecting the bug, and then debugging is finding its root cause and fixing it. There are a couple of different levels of tests that you should care about. So there are unit tests. Unit tests are small pieces of code that we test. Um, and they are usually the ones, um, where you have the most off. Uh, but you don't just one only have unit tests, right? If you only have unit tests, then all of your unit tests are passing. But the combination of your components together is then not doing what it's supposed to do. So we can't really open, uh, this, um, what's it called? Uh, shelf? No, it's all right. Yes. Drawer. Uh, we can't really open this door, so this feature works, but this feature does not. Um, so we want to have some, uh, component integration tests, uh, the test that our units work together, uh, in combination. And then the often most valuable tests are the system tests. Um, they are end to end tests. So this is basically a user puts in data, uh, and then we assert output that the user can actually see and and web apps for example, we can do this with playwright. Who is this playwright before who is building web apps in this um, uh, capstone project? Okay. You should all look up playwright, uh, playwright is great. Playwright is going to be, um, saving you a lot of pain. I think I have a slide on playwright, too. I don't know, maybe, uh, and I've also started building a tutorial on who has completed the, uh, code smells and refactoring tutorial that I, uh, recommended you to do on Tuesday. Okay. Not a single person. Okay. That means I do not need to spend any more time building tutorials for 30 for 130, then all of my time don't need to. 1235 feel good to know. Uh um, why should we have a mix of these? Why should we have, uh, unit tests at all if we said, okay, integration tests are way better, right? Why do we even need the unit tests? Yes. Like a big. You have to narrow down further. If you have just the same test, they will say this sequence is not going to work. But then you're not going to know what specific portion of break broken unit tests point you to a very small unit. This is where it's broken. Any other reasons why unit tests are helpful? Yes. Time. Um, that that is true. So let's say you've made a change to just one unit, and then you just want to run the unit tests for this for this unit. So that's going to be much quicker. So I think the test that I wrote for the e-book tutorials run like half an hour. So when I change one tutorial I just need to run the the tests for, for that one to follow. Yeah. Yeah. That's right. Yeah. You can't really. You can't really run an integration test if you haven't integrated your component yet. That's a good that's a really good reason. Yeah. Like why you all. Right? Yeah. Yeah, right. Why? Why are you while you're developing? Uh, but I think there's a more interesting reason why you want unit tests as well. Yes. If we just have system testing, it will be very hard to identify where exactly that's wrong. Yep. That's right. So localizing the the bug is going to be easier. I'm thinking about coverage. Can you think of a if the term coverage points fall into a direction? Any thoughts on how coverage might impact this? Yes. Okay. Yes. You don't want to have too much code duplication in your unit tests, but it's the easier to write. Let's let's say that let's say that, um, um, uh, when you think about your system tests, uh, your system tests can only exercise the paths that your system is currently exercising. Uh, but since we are living in a world where our software changes and grows, we will exercise different paths in the future. So our system tested can only exercise the paths that with the current composition are going to be exercised. Only the inputs, the inputs that are then kind of forwarded to the subcomponents. But if you want to make sure that your subcomponents are also true, then you need to cover a much wider range of the input space for that particular sub component. So this is why you also want to have unit tests to make sure that you cover all parts of your software. Yes. Okay. Um. The. The difference here is really just, um, just the size. That's the only difference. So we think of it as a component test. If it's not a class or method, uh, if it's a class of method, it's definitely a unit test. If it's a much larger piece of code, then we could either consider the unit test or component test. So the this terminology is not necessarily mutually exclusive. Um, so a unit is whenever we think of one um. Module as a. Individually. That's always a unit test. And the integration test is multiple. And if it's a very large part, then it could be considered a component test and a unit test at the same time. So the size and. That's right. This ice increases. Yes. Oh, I should update this. Yeah. Class and package is not a component is supposed to remove component test because it's. I think it's maybe a little bit confusing. I generally prefer the terminology versus unit integration and system, but um, yeah. Uh, if you if you hear component test is usually a larger unit test. Um, okay. You have learned user stories and you've learned how to write good acceptance criteria. Uh, if you write very good acceptance criteria, uh, you can automatically translate them into Gherkin. What is Gherkin? Gherkin is the language of cucumber. Cucumber is an end to end testing framework. Um, that is, uh, taking natural language, uh, and some rules that, uh, extract specific elements and then transforming this into steps, um, and then translates them into automated unit test. So this is not using LMS, this is using deterministic rules. Um, and you'll, you'll see that when you, uh, think about your acceptance criteria for your user stories in the exam, make sure that each of your a given part is describing a precondition, a set of sequences that need to be set up before your actual feature exercise will happen, because this is what the given part will do. It describes all of the, uh, conditions that have to be true before you exercise the feature. Then in then you describe what the, um, uh, feature is that is going to be tested. What is the sequence of actions that, uh, the actions under test part of the system on the test, and then in then you're going to have your assertion, right. So then as all of the assertions that describe what the outcome should be, and when you write these user stories very carefully, then it's going to be super easy, barely an inconvenience. For those of you who know Ryan George, I was a Ryan George reference. Uh, um, to translate them into tests, right? Because then your acceptance criteria will directly map to tests. Okay. I would not recommend you to use cucumber in this class, because cucumber is most useful when you have an actual non-technical stakeholder who is part of your development process. If you have non-technical stakeholders, you can then show them these acceptance criteria and be like, hey, is this what you want? And they're going to be like, yes, this is what I want. And then you run tests that exactly test this, and then your non-technical stakeholder can actually write more of these tests for you. Your non-technical stakeholder, your product owner is then going to write more of this acceptance criteria. And they automatically translate into tests. Since you don't have a non-technical stakeholder, uh, as part of your team, unless we, uh, no we don't. So we said there's going to be bonus points if you, um, if you test your system with somebody else, um, and then use this to reinforce this test. But that's not that's not going to be cucumber. That's not going to be cucumber. Um, and then once we have our tests, we want to run them in our continuous integration systems. So going to put them on GitHub. Uh, GitHub actions or Travis or Jenkins. Um, and we want to run them for every single merge that we want to do on our main branch. So we want to make sure that on our main branch we always continuously execute these tests. When we want to classify tests. They also um. Um, another category that is really important, which is going to be white box tests and black box tests. So in this lecture we are first talking about black box test. And then later we are going to talk about white box tests. Black box tests are tests that you write without knowing what the actual code is that you're going to test. Um so you are just treating the implementation as a black box. This is why it's called black box. Uh, you want to derive them from the specification. So you've learned the information hiding principle. You know what the interface of a component is. Black box tests are just purely derived from the interface of the component. The contract is not, uh, knowing any of the implementation details. And then white box tests are the exact opposite. White box tests will look at the, uh, conditions at all of the paths inside of the code. And then we want to create code that, for example, achieves 100% statement coverage or 100% branch coverage, 100%, uh, path coverage. So we want to specifically look inside the code to identify, uh, what inputs we have to, uh, put into our test that would cover all of the paths. Yes. So, like, black box is more like on the user side. It's not necessarily a user site. So, um, once you've written the test, it's almost impossible to tell whether it's a black box or white box test. Uh, so it's a it's a philosophy of designing the tests. Um, it's not a property inherently of the test. It's a property of the design of how you come up with the test. Um, and, uh, what do you think are the advantages of black box tests over white box tests and white box tests of a black box test? So why do we want to have a mix of these? Why do we want to create some of our tests not even knowing how it's implemented? And why do we want to create some of our tests specifically just looking at the implementation and making sure that we we cover everything. Talk to your neighbor. Initially when I saw the. And see if it works. Rob says things. We're looking at. Oh, well, I don't know. Use to drive. One more. How? Like. Okay. What are what are reasons what advantages of blackbox tests? Why do we want to have blackbox tests? Yes. Well, because interface is something that is not controlled by the codes. Mhm. Like a person who doesn't know anything about the code to still be able to like, uh, access uh, all the features for example, because you wouldn't be able to achieve that with like. Well, your your test would probably be kind of the same. Um, would they though, because like in the white box testing, you would, uh, test like, for example, if the. CPU usage is okay. Something like that. The black box, like the one that is being clicked. She's like we're. They could both be, you know, they could both be white box or black box tests like clicking the button. The white box. But because the white box test. So if okay, maybe maybe the difference isn't isn't really clear. So if I ask you to create a black box test, I'm just giving you the interface. I'm telling you, I'm giving you a UML diagram that shows you like an API specification. This is this is the method. These are the parameters. This is a black box test. You come up with the black box test just based on the interface. Uh and a white box test. I also show you the code. That's the difference. And a white box test. I show you the code, and then you can use the code to write a test specifically for, uh, the code that was written while in the black box test. You cannot. I guess it could overlap. Yes. Okay. Any ideas? Yes. Yeah, we'll go back. With no matter what. Exactly. You can take that same technique and apply it to different models depending on. Um, as long as it works. That's right. So if we know how we've implemented it, we might. We might be biased. We might think, oh, this is probably the right implementation. Um, and then we'll, we'll probably come up with a test that confirms this. Uh, also, uh, blackbox tests tend to be less brittle, right, because they don't make assumptions about the implementation. Uh, if the implementation changes, the blackbox test usually doesn't have to change. Okay. How about white box test? Why do we want to have, like, box tests in addition to black box tests? Yes. That's right. Maybe we have a very critical if condition in our code and that has the bug. Maybe there's a bug in our if condition. So we want to make sure that we, uh, cover this. Or maybe there is one branch that, uh, has the bug. We want to make sure that we cover all of the branches. Uh, because if we don't know what branches are in in the code, then we can write the tests for those. Um, so. Yeah. So this is the different questions about this. Okay. Yeah. So since testing sometimes psychologically runs counter to the idea of implementation, we sometimes want somebody else to write the test for us. Uh, so if we write code, we often, uh, think that it's correct because that's why we wrote it. That's why we wrote it. Um, so we want to we want to feel confident in our code. We want to, uh, show off that we can write good code. So then we we often write tested a unbiased by our insights in our code. Um, testing is exactly the opposite. Testing assumes that there are bugs, and we want to find them. So the whole activity of testing only really makes sense if you, uh, if you assume that the code is buggy, which is going to be the case, all code has bugs. Um, I think the only code that probably has absolutely zero bugs, uh, is loutish, uh, which is a typographic system developed developed by Donald Knuth, who won the Turing Award for writing the art of computer programing. And to write the book he wrote, um, uh, tech, uh, a system for, uh, having math and algorithms in his book. Uh, and after his he, he has written us he, uh, said, if you find a bug in my code, I'm gonna send you a check over. I don't know how much. Uh, so he felt so confident in his code that he literally said a reward for finding bugs. And then a couple of people, uh, collected the reward. And now there are no rewards anymore because all of the bugs are gone. Uh, so you want to. If you want to feel so confident in your code that you, um, uh, you want to put a reward on finding bugs, I'm not going to have a reward on any of the code that I write for this tutorial. So if you find bugs you get, maybe you get, you get candy, you get candy if you find bugs to get candy. Um, but, um, yeah. So this, this is the mentality that you want to have when you're testing. You want to say, okay, there are probably some bugs. Let me just find the bugs that are there already. Um, and this is why we often, uh, assign a specific role, the software development engineer and test, who is responsible for writing the tests of code written by somebody else. Um, in many corporations, the role is kind of shared by the same person. So if you write code, you also have to test it. But in some corporations they're separate. Um, so, um, so that it's clear that the role is, uh, taken by somebody who's not biased by proving the correctness of the code. Okay, but now let's think about how we can write good tests. I think, um. Uh, so when Kerry Nixon and I were discussing what we want to teach in our, uh, generative software development course, we are thinking of what are the software engineering skills that will probably be relevant, uh, even in a future in which, you know, AI coding assistants are going to be ten times as good as they are today. Uh, and we believe that this question is the most important one in the space of quality assurance. Um, so this is why I also wanted to included in this lecture. Um, but when you think of testing, what would you guess are good criteria for tests? So if you wanted to grade the tests written by your teammates, what would be the grading rubric? Think of a grading rubric for the tests written by your teammates. Talk to your neighbor. Coverage of over the hundred. Like wooden spoons. This one. I don't know. I guess it will be easy. For us to tell. Yeah, I like that. Like, uh. Having come here, I'll put up here because here. Here is the outlet to. Welcome to the expected output and see what's wrong with the code. And the result is that because if there is a test that we can do here. Yeah. Oh, yeah, I like that. Okay. What what criteria do you think are the most important one? Any ideas? Yes. Uh, like a consulting framework where you want to structure you construct your tests hierarchically, each layer with the. It's awesome to see you have, like, unit tests for each unit. And then component tests that would combine those hmhm separate. Further and further on until you. To test that. That's good criteria. You want this one? Okay. Um. Um, yeah. That would be good criteria. Um, let's think about kind of like if I give you, let's say, just one test. Uh, how can you judge whether it's a good test or not? Yeah, but it should be easy to identify where the program is wrong based on the output of the task. That that's a good criterion. That's actually not on my list, but that's a good criteria. So your test should, uh, should help you locate the bug. Um, that's that's good. Yeah. Uh, how about you? I think okay. Thanks, man. Okay. Yes. Nathan. Nathan. Yeah. The test should be relevant to. Relevant to the goals of the application. Let me rephrase this in a slightly different terms. Oh, sorry. Uh, the test should be specification driven. So we have a specification that is basically our requirements. So in our let's say user stories or whatever other requirements engineering task we are completing. We come up with a list of requirements. They also part of your design doc. Right. And then uh test should be derived from that specification. So they should specifically test the requirements that are important. It they should not test something that's not part of the requirements spec. And they should test everything that is part of the requirements spec. Good point. Any other. Criteria of quality. Hmhm. Yes. Relatively short. Short. Simple to understand, I would agree. Simple to understand, I would agree. I don't think that the length of a test, um, is as important as, um, other criteria. Uh, because test code is not often written in read as often. So if test code is usually more important, you know what it does. Um, than that it's super easy to understand. Um, but I mean, it's it's certainly a, it's a it doesn't hurt, right? It doesn't hurt. Yes. Any other criteria for good test? Yes, it should be. But it. Like that. Yes, exactly. So we want to have very strong Oracle's song Oracle. So the Oracle is what tells us what is a correct output for a given input. And we want this oracle to have as many assertions as possible. So we want to have uh we want our test to not be permissible. Our test should for every incorrect program, our test should fail, right. Every single incorrect program it should fail. It should have very strong assertions. We're going to see some examples of this later. Okay. Could it test also be too strong? Would it just be too strong? Think about the information hiding principle. Could a test be too strong? Well, how? Okay. I'm going to tell you. Yes. The test can also be too strong. Uh, how can a test be too strong? Elliot. Exactly. So if you start to test the actual implementation, not the contract. If you are testing an internal data structures, if somehow your test gains access to internal data structures, and then it's asserting that the internal data structures are written one way, then whenever you change these internal data structures, your test will fail. So you want your test to fail for all incorrect programs, but only for incorrect programs. Whenever you have a correct program, your test should pass. So these these two, these are two criteria that are kind of in contrast with each other. And it's often hard to write tests that, um, that satisfy both. Yes. Uh, so so we're talking about all kinds of tests right now, whether black box or white box. So the whole part of Whitebox testing is a you you increase your coverage. Um, this does not necessarily mean that the test will fail on a different implementation. Uh, a whitebox test. So the criteria here is that the test is should not be brittle. Brittle means that once you change parts of the implementation, the test will fail. If you design your test so that it specifically covers the inputs. Um, that all paths are covered. All branches are covered. All segments are covered. That doesn't necessarily mean that it has. It then fails on a different kind of program. It just means that it doesn't keep its test adequacy criterion. We'll cover this later in the lecture. I think it will maybe make more sense at the end of this lecture or well, after the next lecture. Um, okay. Okay. This is my list of okay quality criteria. So we want to select inputs the test boundaries and equivalence classes. We want to cover uh the most interesting cases. And this is usually around the boundaries. And usually uh it's sufficient to pick one test for each equivalence class. So for example, if we have numbers we can have positive numbers. Negative numbers zero. It's zero is always where the focus the bug is usually not. And 1 or 2 is usually a zero because zero is non-trivial. What they should zero should be included or not. Um and then very large numbers, very small numbers. This is where your bugs are going to be. Um, you want to, uh, of course you want to cover, um, the happy path, uh, so that you know that your system works for the most important path. But besides the happy path, you want to think of some, uh, edge cases. You want to think of some exceptions. They could happen. You want to specifically think about things that could go wrong and make sure that your software works in the, uh, exceptional cases in which things go wrong. This is where the really, really good tests lie. This is where the tests lie that find the really, really high value bugs, the tests that are trying to think about everything they can go wrong in, let's say, race conditions could happen. There could be, um, um, if you work with a, uh, separate system, your separate system could fail, right. So you want to test that your system works correctly when the other system fails, as you want to test common edge cases, and then you want to have strong assertions do and have strong oracle. So they should test all aspects of the specification. Um, this is why, uh, I love to start this class with, um, use user stories so that you start thinking about what are the requirements that should be true for your system. Uh, you start by writing your acceptance criteria before you write your implementation, and then ideally, you derive your tests directly from your acceptance criteria. This also means a good user. Stories are written in a way that they can then be translated into a test. Um, and this is basically saying the test should not be brittle. So you want a test behavior, not implementation details. So the assertions. Uh, this is maybe the difference between a whitebox test and a brittle test. So a brittle test has assertions that are only true for, um, specific implementations. Um, a, uh, whitebox test has inputs that are specifically derived from, um, the way how your, um. Um system is written. Um, and if you want to experiment with this in Python, uh, I created this tutorial, uh, on Python. The next you experiment with this. Um, um. Testing criteria. Okay. Let's look at this from one example. Let's say we want to test a system that is a password validator. So these are the four criteria for a valid password for this specific system. Of course in other systems you know the criteria are different. But for this one, for this hypothetical system, every single user username and password must not a username, uh, a password must be 8 to 20. Characters long. Um. It must not be a password that was used previously. It must contain at least one uppercase letters, a lowercase letter number, and special character, and it must not contain the username. Okay, so this is our password valid data class. It has valid password with username as argument and password as argument. Okay. And these are the four criteria that we want our password to have. Okay. We want to create the most amazing tests for this system. Blackbox tests. Before you go off and talk to a neighbor about which specific test you would generate. Anything else that you need to know about the system besides what I've provided you with? This is a very important question. This differentiates a good engineer from a great engineer. A good engineer starts working. A great engineer asks questions. First. You have a question. This is a small question, but we are testing and password validation. That's right. Yes, we are testing the password validator. So assume I provide you with an implementation. Of this class you should create a test that tells me whether my implementation is correct. Oh yes. Multiple tests. Yes. Other questions? Yes. That's exactly the right question. Yes. So that's a separate class as password database. And, uh, this password database has these, uh, two functions. Okay. Any other questions? Yes. That's right. Anywhere. Anywhere. Any other questions about the. Yes. Oh, especially that. Up to you. Okay, no more questions. Awesome. Because that's going to be the one question you missed. One question. You miss me? I'll say this, but I expected you to miss this one. So we'll see this later. Okay. Talk to a neighbor. Come up with some tests. Yes. Oh. The username is as a parameter, like. Yes, they would have. Like none of us ever. So me just. You look at the combination of. Yeah, yeah. For the. Yeah. Um. Um. I mean, it's not like your professors validate your classes. You'll have a few more seconds. Um. Okay. Any ideas, suggestions, thoughts, high level approaches that you've picked? Let's maybe not. Let's maybe not discuss the specific tests you've come up with. But what approach have you tried to follow to write these tests? Yes. Like basically contradicting all of the stuff that is written, like if the password. Yes. Different company. That makes sense. Any other approaches that people have followed? Yes. Um. I thought that there would be 48 possible US 48. Oh, wow. You have one test for less than 20, then one test for more than 20. And then for the other criteria you have, either it doesn't contain enough or does for all of those. So that's um, so that would be 16 for the lower ones times three for the upper one. So you've combined all of the different criteria. You've been more exhaustive than I have. Uh, which is a great practice. Um, I think, uh, testing is, is, um, testing is more of an art. There's also a science to it, but, uh, you you sometimes need to make the decision whether it makes sense to have a combination of all of them or if it if it makes sense to, uh, not necessarily have a combination of all of them. But if you if you want to be very exhaustive and this this depends on your use case. What kind of, uh, system? How important is it that this system is correct? Right. I would say for a password validator, maybe 48 might be a little bit of overkill. Because if the password validator doesn't work, that's not necessarily going to be the end of the world. They're going to be more critical features. And then the password validator in our system. So we often have to make this decision. Do we want to combine all of the criteria. Um, if that's the case then you know you would have for 48 tests. Uh, so it often depends on the specific feature you're testing. Uh, so this is a it's a decent feature, but it's not necessarily going to, you know, um, bankrupt your company if your password validated has a bug, if you're, uh, you know, password storage has a bug that, that can that can be very costly. But the, the password validator that tells you whether, uh, the password conforms to this criteria may not necessarily bankrupt your company, which is why I would say for, uh, a system like this, maybe you don't need to be as exhaustive as you would be for a really critical part of your system, but the approach makes sense. That makes sense. I would just not necessarily use it for a password validator. Um, any other approaches? Okay. So, um, the approach that I would suggest you to follow is basically, uh, the one that I forgot your name. What's the name? Marshall. Marcia was saying, you want to think about basically the equivalence classes of, uh, um, of passwords and they are valid ones and they're invalid ones, right? The valid ones, they all follow the exact same equivalence class. They all satisfy these criteria. But the invalid ones they are there are differences in them. Right? The invalid ones, there are some that violate this criteria. There are some that violate that criteria. So there are different equivalence classes for the passwords that, uh, do not satisfy these criteria or the ones that satisfy this criteria. We consider them kind of like one equivalence class. So the equivalence class we want to think of for the system. Um, okay. Let's start with the first one. Let's start with the first one. Uh, we want to test that this is the password must be 8 to 20 characters long. Um, and you want to know, split this equivalence class into some equivalence classes. So what? How many equivalence class can we have for that program? Uh, uh, for that criteria alone, let's assume let's ignore username for now. Let's just say okay. We just use like the username just username. And you know, we just start with an empty password database. Just to keep it simple. Keep it simple. Let's just focus only on the 8 to 20 characters long. How many tests would we need to test that this feature is working correctly? Just allowing this feature? Yes. Three. Maybe four. Why? Why three? Why for like three. For like less than 20. So, uh, I would say. Oh, sorry. Uh, it should be four. It should not be three. Because with three tests, you can guarantee both of the boundaries. You can only, you know, guarantee one of the boundaries. Uh, so you need these four tests. So you have, uh, you have the I guess you have that you have three equivalence classes, but then you have, uh, you have, uh, these two boundaries. So you have the valid ones, you have the two long ones, and you have the two short ones. And, uh, to make sure that usually the bugs are in the boundaries. This is usually where the bugs that when people, uh, uh, define a range, usually a smaller or smaller and equal is something what the developer would mess up with, right. They usually mess up less than or less than or equal. So we want to make sure that these boundaries are exactly right. Yes. This would be like blackbox testing, right? Yes, exactly. White box testing would like. What if I them. I've had an implementation where like six character passwords. Where like. Treat a different breed. Exactly. Exactly. So we now know where we are putting our black box hat on, at least for a while. And then later we'll put on a white box hat on. Uh, so our black box hat tells us no matter what the implementation is, uh, we should definitely capture these four cases. So we want to capture seven and eight. We want to capture 20 and 21. These are the boundaries. Right around 20 is where we where we swap. So we want to make sure that 20 is included. But 21 is not. We want to make sure that eight is included but seven is not. And then we want to come up with valid, um, passwords that satisfy the other criteria so that we then don't interfere with the other criteria. And then we just come up with, you know, random, you know, passwords that have, uh. Uh, the length seven, eight, 20 and 21. Okay, so this makes sense. So we we figure out the equivalence classes and we identify boundaries between these equivalence classes. To test that, we've implemented our boundaries the right way. Cool. Let's move on to the next feature. Next feature is a must contain uppercase letter. At least one uppercase letter, at least one lowercase letter, at least one number, and at least one special character. How many tests do we need for this? And which values do we pick? We will. Keep username fix for now and we will again start with an empty password database. Yes. 16. Oh, okay. You're doing the exhaustive testing. What did you do? That's a kind of philosophical question. So this depends on your test goals. Um, so the minimum test. Oh, yes. You need one of each. You need one? Yes. For the password, you need one of each. So you need at least one lowercase, one uppercase, one number, and one special code. And yet I was. Five. You will have one house with the house, all of whom? Right away. Your intuition is correct. Your intuition is correct. We need five. But, uh, in this case, we actually just need four because we've already written the test for the fifth case and the previous one. Right. So we already have the case where it passes. So we've already covered the fifth case in our previous test. So if we want to optimize our test suite for the smallest number of tests that kind of give us confidence, then we need four tests. So we need one that rejects, uh, because it's missing uppercase, one that is missing lowercase, one that is missing the number, and one that is missing a special character. Uh, and then we don't need the fifth one because this one was already covered in our previous test. So these are just the ones that we add to our previous tests. Okay, this makes sense. And of course, if we, uh, if we want to make sure, um, no, no. What were the 16, the 16 tests on a different assumption. Um, what was this combination? Okay. The combination of. Yeah. So yeah, I guess so. You basically just want to make sure that, uh, uh, a test that rejects more than one of the criteria is then also rejected. Um, yeah. I mean, it doesn't hurt to be to be safe. Uh, it doesn't hurt to be safe. Um, okay. Other questions about this. Cool. Then let's move to a more interesting property. So now we test must not contain the username. Okay, now let's again keep the. Let's assume the password database is empty. We'll kind of like progressively add new tests. If we test this how many tests do we need for this feature. And which one do we like. One. One. Why one. Let me give you another. Okay. Yes I so I agree. I just added one test. Um, I was thinking of. Okay, let's just assume our username is test user. We just include use a test user there. Of course we can. We can, um, be safer and we can make sure maybe. Okay. Test user isn't the beginning of the password isn't the end of the password is in the middle of the password. We can think of more more edge cases. Um, but for a basic test suite, that is probably going to be enough. What is it? Or is it? Are we done? Yeah. Mm. Oh. Good point. Let me. Do this. And now you've already seen the answer. Um, but, um. Who have not seen it? Uh. We don't. Uh, okay. So that's a case that's kind of ambiguous, right? Where our specification was under specified. We ask maybe that's the question you need to ask me. How about, like, what should this test be? Right. If the user name is test user and the password is test user, should this be a valid password or not? Like we don't know right? Yeah. Your question basically should the user name be case sensitive. Right. So the question is the question is does the must not contain the username. Is this a case sensitive contain. Is it a case insensitive content. Uh, I haven't told you. So, um, this is the kind of question when you're writing these tests. This is the question you should ask your user or whoever is coming up with the requirements because it's not clear, right? You don't know. And if you systematically think of your tests, you will, uh, enter these situations where then you have to think about what is the behavior we actually want our system to have. And then you often come up with additional questions that you can then ask your customer or your product owner or whoever is, uh, in charge of describing the requirements to you. Um, so, um, yeah, testing is not a one way street. Testing. Testing is also a dialog with whoever comes up with the, um, whoever comes up with the requirements. Okay. Questions? Let's take a break. Before we move on to the tough question. So the one Tuesday. I got. Okay, now let's move on to the most interesting question, which is what are we going to do about? Must not be a password used previously. What are we going to do about this? How am I going to test this? Any ideas? Oh. Elliott offers a set of passwords for 95% of them. Yes. So now. So previously, our tests have basically just been, uh, single assertions on single calls. Right. So if called, uh, validate password with, uh, a password. And then we've asserted that this is either invalid or invalid password. Now we actually need to think of a sequence of steps because now our system has state. Now we're testing state testing. State is where things get tricky. So we can basically, uh, validate a password. So we make sure that the password we've picked is actually a valid one for a given user. So we pick our test user, we pick a password. And this password is indeed valid for this user. Uh, and then we change the password to this new password. Right. We change this password to the new password. And then we want to make sure that the new password, uh, that the password is not a valid password anymore, because now we've used this password. Right. Why why do I have this assertion here? So that's the question here. No, it's not the question here. Why do I have this passed this assertion here? Yes. Uh. Failure is. Exactly, exactly. If somehow I make some changes to the definition of, uh, of as valid, uh, a validated password, then, or accidentally, I've picked the wrong password. Right. I mean, people make mistakes. People make mistakes. Um, then I wanted to make sure that, uh, this is failing because of the change password, not because of the password. So, uh, when you design your tests, you want to make sure that your test fails for the right reason. And a good way to test that your test is failing for the right reason is, for example, to write your test before you write your implementation. Right? Because then you see your test fail, then you implement the feature and then, uh, you know that after you've implemented the feature, uh, the test is green. So you have seen the test fail. Um, uh, so for TDD, I, I love TDD is test driven development uses the practice of writing the test before the code. Um, let me see if I can. Okay. Anyways, um. I'd like to put this meme up with Gandalf saying, you shall not pass to a test that, uh, is a liar. Test a lie. A test is a test, uh, that, uh, passes even though it should fail. Um, and this would be a test that might fail for the wrong reason. So you want to make sure that it does not fail for the wrong reason? Uh, no. We have given you this test. But can you think of a stronger assertion than the one I've written down? So I've said, uh, can we change the password and then we validate the password? Can we think of a stronger assertion than just this one as an assertion that, uh, checks more parts of the desired behavior than just this, but still just, you know, parts of the behavior that the, uh, that any implementation for this contract should have. Yes, like shaped ones and then change again. Oh, that's a really good one. Yes. Uh, maybe, uh, this behavior only works for the current password, but it doesn't work for, you know, previous passwords. So we might wanna basically, uh, repeat this with a new password. Uh, that's a really good answer. I forgot to put this on my slides. I was thinking about this, like, while I was walking to the lecture that I forgot to put this example on my slides. Uh, that is not going to be on the slides, but that's, uh, that's the correct answer. Is there another way how we can make this assertion stronger? We have a hash password function here. Should we maybe include this one in our assertion as well? I mean, it doesn't hurt, right? You can just. Also assert that it has this password. So he had had this password right. So now we are making sure that this also works well. So we've added an additional assertion to our test. They are kind of semantically linked. So you want to make sure that your assertions are semantically linked. Uh and you want to think of as many correct assertions for your tests as, uh, as are relevant. Um, uh, the more things to assert that are still, you know, part of the specification and the desired behavior, the better. Because then you're going to find more bugs. Uh, and in general, it is cheaper to add just an additional assertion to your existing test than it is to, you know, create a completely new test. So in many cases, this approach is preferable over just, you know, having 20 million different tests. Um, you can also in most testing frameworks you can include like a assertion failure message where you then say, if this assertion fails, I'm going to, you know, in the test runner, I'm going to show this specific message. And then for this one we would say, okay, had password is incorrect. And for the other one we would say validate password is incorrect. Uh, so it's easier for us to then locate it even though we have um. Specific tests. Okay, let me show you. A slightly different scenario. Okay. Now we also. Have exposed the way how our data, uh, password database is storing its passwords. So it is storing it as a dictionary from the string username to all of the lists of passwords. Okay, let's think about a test like this. How about this test? What do you think about this test? So we we change the password. And then we assert that our password is in the list of, you know, the dictionary. We look up with the user network. So he here's a username a parameter as well that I forgot to put up there. Do you think about this code. Who thinks this is an amazing test? This is the best test you've ever seen. Well, you know, very close, very close. Who thinks this is the worst test they've ever seen in the entire life? Okay, so some people, some people that have not seen the absolute worst tests in the world, but believe this is this is a close. Okay. Okay. In general, a more good test or bad test. Okay. Why is it why is it more of a bad test? Yeah. We don't know whether the new password will be added to your password database, because we suggest we use that to see if this previous password. So you're basically saying this is kind of an implementation detail, right. This is not something that is kind of part of the contract. Uh that's a good reason. So maybe another reason why this test is absolutely terrible and literally the worst test that I've written in my life. Nobody has taken any kind of security class or privacy class or. Or networking. Networking. You've taken networking, right? Huh? Interest. I covered this in 35 FL. So of course you should not store the clear text clear text password in your password database. You should not do that. Don't do that. You want to. We should hash this. That's of course, uh, the most important. So of course we have to hash the password. But, um, is this a better test? I mean, it's a little bit better because nothing always made sure that the password is at least hashed in the database so that our database doesn't store the clear text, clear text password. But yes. Can two users have the same password? They could. Sure. Like when? Password is. So you're changing like user one, for example. Hold password to password. Mhm. You can also have the same password. When that. Like it would be in the database. Oh. Oh, yeah. So, yeah, we're we're we're, uh, using the, uh, the username as well. So, uh, we're, we're specifically looking at just as the passwords, passwords of the user. So this this data structure, the hash function we could use, these things are all things that can change right. So here we are starting a specific hash function that is implemented in some way. Maybe we use a different hash function. Maybe the way how we store our passwords in the database changes. This is a very, very brittle test. That's a very brittle test. This is, uh, testing the implementation details, not the contract. The way, how the passwords are stored in the, uh, password database. That should be hidden. Nobody should make assumptions about this. This is a violation of information hiding. And information hiding doesn't just apply to the design of our systems, but also to the design of our, you know, system and test code design. Um, so we want to make sure that our system is, um, not also revealing, uh, the secrets to our tests, because this results in a situation that I've had a lot of students, uh, say in full, uh, in 35 l. So I let all teams write end to end tests for the web apps of play. Right? And then some of the teams, we're saying every single time we've made a tiny change to the UI, our tests started failing. Our tests have become a burden on us. They have not given us confidence. They have given us anxiety, because every single time we make the tiniest change, we we felt that something broke. And it turns out it was just the test that was brittle. So this is the reason why bad tests actually slow you down. Good tests speed you up. That tests slow you down. You want to think of tests that are only asserting the behavior that is, uh, true in the future as well. Which is, again, the whole point why you are going to be, uh, not paid to write code. And you're not you're not paid to write tests. You're paid to think about what might happen in the future. In the future, might the behavior change? Should I design my test so that, uh, this test will not fail in the future scenario in which we are, uh, updating this code? Okay, so a weak test is a test that lets broken behavior pass. We want to avoid this. A brittle test rejects correct implementations. You want to think of a test that accepts all correct implementations and uh, rejects all of the important incorrect ones. So this this is why testing is so hard in the real world. Real testing is really hard. Specifically, when you have UI test, UI tests are always very, very brittle because you have to say, you know, the UI element that contains this text, the UI element that has this ID, and then we go to the next page. So then we assert that there is another UI element on this page. Right. So whenever you change the UI of course the UI tests have to change. So you want to you want to think about. This is a recommendation that I'm stealing from, uh, from Kerry Natural in book, he says. Uh, you want to think about your, um. Um. How solid your system is. Where is your system going to evolve? And in the directions in which your system are going to evolve. You want to maybe not actually write the tests yet. If you're you, I might change next week. Maybe you don't even need UI tests yet. Maybe you write your UI tests when you feel like your UI is, uh. It's not going to change anymore. It's not in flux anymore. You want to think about where's the flux of your application? And then you want to delay the tests for the parts of your application that are still in flux, so they are not going to be brittle. Okay, so this makes sense. I think this is probably the most interesting insight in testing, and this is one of the reasons why I believe it's so important to cover the information hiding principle, because this only really makes sense when you've understood information hiding. Okay. Um. Now let's think about how many tests we need from a white box perspective. Now we've put our black box hat off and now we put a white box hat on. Okay. Now I'm going to give you a function. You tell me how many tests you need. And the, uh, criteria we're going to use for this are called test adequacy criteria. The problem is that sometimes developers don't really write enough tests to cover all of the behavior. And sometimes developers cover redundant cases and redundant tests. They take up your execution time. If your test suite takes longer than ten minutes, the developer is not gonna executed every single time they make a change. They are not going to wait 30 minutes for all of the tests to pass. They're just going to be like, I didn't break anything. Push. Um, or they might even, you know, execute the specific tests that are probably, uh, relevant. Uh, so you want to keep your test suite as efficient as possible? And, you know, additional tests are then causing more quality assurance overhead. Um, and yes, sometimes you don't really have the, uh, time to execute all of them. So you want to identify what are the relevant tests. Okay, let's look at this piece of code. What tests should be right to, you know, fully cover this code. I want to fully test it. We want to have, like, super high confidence that we've tested everything. How many tests do we need? Talk to your neighbor. We want. Paid for all. This isn't like the one first. If you want. Okay. Any. Any guesses and reasons for the guess? It's not just guesses. Yes. Uh, yes. 2424 okay. So the rationale is we've got three if statements. So they could be all the conditions could potentially be true or not true. So you've got two you know, you've got two tests for condition one then four tests for condition two with an eight tests for condition three to test them like as if there are three digit binary. Want to be on. But if you have three digit binary, you don't have 24 cases. Two, you know. And so that's that's where I'm getting to is with integer x you test it on and lo o. And then just like a standard value oh you also cover. You also cover the end okay. Well if you also cover the end then you have a lot of different cases. Yes. Uh, so you also you, you cover the paths and you also cover the equivalence classes for the integer that that makes sense. That makes sense. That's a much stronger test adequacy criterion than we would usually pick. But that makes sense. Any other ideas? Yes. Six. By six. The. Honestly and maybe to the Commission one. This has nothing to. So you've basically, uh, you wanted to cover every single path through the program. That's right. So we have three different test adequacy criteria, and we have to usually decide which one to pick. So we have statement coverage. That's the question of what is the percentage of statements we've covered. We have branch coverage. What is the percentage of possible branch evaluations that we've covered. And then we have path coverage. What is the percentage of possible execution paths we've covered. And then of course we can add on like the different data type equivalence classes in addition to this. Uh uh but yeah. So if we want to have statement coverage, how many different tests might we need for full statement coverage to cover every single statement in this program, to have all x plus plus x minus my x equals and all of the conditions we evaluate, how many tests do we need for that? Yes. Eight, eight. Oh. Other guesses? Yes. One. Exactly. We just need one. We just need one test where all of the conditions are true. Right? Then we've covered all of the all of the statements for branch coverage, where we execute every single branch once. So for every single if statement, we've covered the then branch and also the else branch. How many different cases do we need to cover both branches of each branch? Yes I it. That's just 8 to 8. Why does everyone keep saying eight? Uh. You're asking for all the good. That's right. So for. That's right. So for every single condition, we want to make sure that we've covered a case where it's true and where it's false. No. Two. Just took. Oh, okay. Cool. So we have just have to be. That's right. Exactly. So for brand coverage, we just want to have one text, you know, where all of the conditions are true. And then one where all of the conditions are false. This is how we for this example. This is not generally the case. This is not generally the case. But in this example, because there are no return statements, you just need to have one test where all of them are true. And then one, well, all of them are false. And we have covered the branch for every single, um, we've covered the brand for every single. Um, yes. And then for path coverage then would be a yes. That. How would it be useful to go through all? Okay. That is a great question. So for this program, I probably would not. Uh, for this program I probably would not. Um, but. You want to make sure that basically, uh, if you if you don't have the time to reach full path coverage, uh, then you want to, you know, at least pick French coverage, brand coverage. It's kind of like a, like a really good, really, really minimum bar for your for your testing. You want to make sure that your, your program has at least covered both of the branches so that no matter which branch you're taking, you've at least covered at once. Of course, path coverages is, uh, more powerful. Um, but in many cases, you know, in real world programs like full path coverage over your entire code base, your code base, your tests are probably gonna run all weekend, right? Um, because you're going to have so many different paths through your program, um, that it's just not going to be feasible. And then you have to kind of degrade your, your quality center. Um, so though and I mean, like even statement coverage for, for most systems they have not reach 100% statement coverage. Um, um, but um. Yeah, I think statement coverage is something that most developers can kind of easily understand. So they're like, okay, have I covered all of the statements? Branch coverage is going to be the one that's the most counter-intuitive. But, uh, I think it makes sense from the perspective of you want to make sure that, um, it makes obviously more sense when you also have else branches, but when you have else branches, then branch coverage and statement coverage is basically the same. Um, then they're the same for this one. They're not the same. Okay. Like five more minutes. So maybe we're not going to. Um. Cover this in too much detail. We do this on Thursday. Uh, but yeah. So the goal here is basically in statement coverage. Has every statement been executed and branch coverage has every control structure being evaluated both true and false. Right. That's the question. Have we executed the path where your conditions have been both true and false for every single condition? Have they been evaluated? True and false. Um, you you want to, you know, make sure that your program works when the condition is true and false. Uh, and maybe you're not going to have the time to write full path coverage and full path coverage as every possible route through the program has been executed. And then, of course, you can add on to path coverage. You have different equivalence classes for um for data types that are not control flow uh, uh, altering but that uh, potentially result authoring. Um, that would be. You. I don't think that has a that has a name, but that would be. Yeah, even more coverage. Um. Okay. Let's look at this example. So we have these test cases here. These test cases. We have true true true false false false and false true true. What is the cumulative statement coverage branch coverage and path coverage. Respectively for these two tests. Of these three tests. How about statement coverage? How high is our statement coverage after the first test? Mm. 100%. What if we. What if we run them in a different order? What if we just ran the second test? Just ran the second test. Is it still 100%? No. That's right, that's right. Because if not executed, the X plus plus the x minus minus in the x equals x. So it depends on the test. But yes. Uh 70%. No okay. Okay. Uh how about. Brand coverage. So we've executed the first test. How high is our French coverage? Yes. Okay. So statement is we've executed the F condition. We've executed the X plus. Plus we've executed this condition and we've executed this statement. So everything that is a, um. If you don't know what a statement is, then 131. Probably 131. Probably talk to you about a statement as we have covered all of the different statements and branch coverage. We've evaluated all of the conditions, both to be true and also to be false. So in the first case, we've only evaluated conditions one way. We've executed all the statements, but we've not executed the else branch for the for any unsafe conditions. We've only executed the then branch. We've not executed the else branch. That's the difference. So statement coverage, every single statement, every piece of code you see has been run at least once for branch coverage, for every condition, and the result has been true and false. We've covered both of these branches for every condition. Okay. After the first test. What's our branch coverage? Yep. 50%. That's right. And then we also execute the second test and then our branch coverage. As what. 100%. Yes. So we've covered exactly the branches that we've not covered in the, uh, in the, uh, oops, uh, in the oops people. We've covered exactly the, uh, the branches that we've not covered. How about path coverage? Path coverage? So after the first test. Well, how high is our path coverage? Yes. One eighth. That's right. That's right. Okay. And then, uh, after the second test, what's all health coverage? Not that that needs to be answered by someone here. Okay. That's some. Someone over here has to answer this question. Yes, yes. On fourth. Exactly. Or two eighth. That's right. And then we execute the third branch. Uh, the the third test. What is our path? Coverage. After execute 30th. Yes. Three eighth. That's right. Okay. So we've we've. We have reached 100% statement coverage. We have reached 100% brand coverage and we've achieved 3/8 of path coverage. That's kind of odd, right? We probably we usually want to pick. So if we pick these test criteria we want to just reach a specific level we want to reach. We want to do the minimum possible to reach all statement coverage, or the minimum possible to reach or branch coverage, or the minimum possible to reach path coverage. Right in this case. If our goal would have been 100% statement coverage, one would have been enough. If it would have been hundreds and branch coverage, the first two would have been enough. The third one the last. This test hasn't really added anything in terms of these levels. Right. We've just kind of had a minor increase in our path coverage, but we've not reached 100% path coverage. So that's not necessarily a very uh. A very systematic goal. And, uh, yeah. So the way how you systematically answer this question is by drawing a control flow graph. I think the last time I taught this class, nobody knew what a control flow graph is. Who? How many in this audience who knows what a control flow graph is? One. Two. Three. Four. Okay, a couple of more students and last five know what a control flow graph is. So a control flow graph is a graph that looks like this. That starts at the beginning of the program, that ends at the end of the program. And then at every single branching point it's showing. This is why it's called the control flow graph. It is showing how your control flow can branch at every single condition. And then it mentions all of the statements that are on this control flow path. And you you draw this control flow graph. And then it's going to be super easy for you to, um, evaluate the branches, because for the branch coverage, you just have to make sure that you have a test that executes all true. And you have one. Oh there's a, there's a of this would be an F that covers the false branch for every single condition you want to cover, every outgoing edge, that's 100% branch coverage for every condition we cover. Um, the outgoing edges, we have 100%, uh, branch coverage. And then for path coverage, we need all combinations of those. Okay. But we are running out of time. Um, and we will cover the rest here. Um, on Thursday, after the most difficult exam that you have ever had in your entire. It's going to be so hard. Like, you have to, like, study really, really hard, right? Like, please study really, really hard. Um. Do we have what we have? Uh, tonight you'll have one. Yeah. Okay. This is your, um. This is your exit ticket, and the password is, um, s u t or uppercase. What do I recommend for? For what? Prepare to prepare for the exam. I recommend so in the very first lecture, I gave study advice. I recommend that, um, which assumes that you've done some of this already. So I don't usually I don't usually like to, um. Give. I mean, it's like it's like you said, a weekend. So I recommend you to, uh, be able to do everything that we've asked you to do in the homework. Uh, so review your homework. Um, uh, study in the exam. Uh, I don't think that is complete for this class. I don't think I'm going to get it complete. Um. But, um, I recommend you to, um. Maybe, I don't know. I mean, the job is just for, you know, so that you feel familiar with Java, familiar enough, they can read and write it. I mean, you need to read Java, right? Like, if you if you read Java in the exam and you raise your hand like, what does this Java syntax mean? We're just gonna, uh, not answer the question because this is not like I'm not going to answer the Java syntax questions on the exam. Um, it's an exam. It's not, uh, it's not, uh, homework. Um, yes. Um. I mean, um. The questions will be different from the homework, but the style of questions will be very similar. Uh. We'll be very similar. Will be very similar. Um, this. Yeah. This is why we assign the homework so that you get, uh, that you get, uh, uh, a good idea of how the questions are going to be like, um, yeah. So it's going to be a I mean, I can tell you what what I already know, um, and there's going to be a user story, a question where you need to, um. I'll potentially review or write good user stories. Um, that's going to be some question where we, uh, probably show you some Java code and then you need to draw a human or the other way around, like you've you've done both directions or both directions might be on the exam. Um, they will probably be some questions on, uh, design patterns where you either have to recognize design patterns from code or UML, or where you have to, um, decide between design patterns, which is, you know, the current homework. Um, um, and, um, yeah, you have to have a structural and behavioral understanding of all of the design patterns that we covered in the lecture. Um. And um, or information hiding. Yeah. So you want to. You want to be able to judge, uh, a given implementation for its weakness in terms of information hiding. Uh, and suggest a way how to improve it. Yes. Um, so what are the. Uh, up until Tuesday. So testing is not going to be specifically on the midterm. Yes, exactly. Uh, so to today's lecture, uh, it's not going to introduce new material. And that will be so like material newly introduced in this lecture will not be on the midterm. But I mean, like material reiterated today, you know, as that game, of course. Um. Yes. Not an answer. I'm not going to answer Java syntax question. The Tar is not going to answer Java syntax question. Your neighbor is hopefully not going to talk to you in any way. Uh, so, uh, um, I hope this answers your question. Because this is kind of disrupting, right? Like we want to create an environment where students can focus on the exam and somebody has like a question that they shouldn't necessarily have to ask because there was, you know, a requirement of the class then. So we will we will answer clarification questions, but we will not answer questions about, oh, can you please remind me, what was the information hiding? You know, we're not going to answer these kind of questions. Um, um, but we will we will answer questions and. Oh, I don't understand what this means. Can you can you please explain this? Yes. What was the. So, uh, officially, it's called the note sheet. Uh, because the Office of Student Affairs doesn't really like the, uh, the other time that I colloquially sometimes use. They don't like that. Um. Uh, so this is why the official term is there no cheat. So you will be allowed to bring one page and, uh, us letter size. So, uh, last fall and students were saying I have an ancient Chinese scroll that is very large. Can I, can I bring my ancient Chinese scroll? That's this count as a page. And we were like, you win the funniest, uh, Piazza question. But the answer is no. The answer is no. Because, um, uh, yes, that is slightly different from A4, but it's basically the same size. So if you bring a four because you have a four, we're not gonna, we're not gonna, uh, it must be written at eight, right? It must be written by.