[Auto-generated transcript. Edits may have been applied for clarity.] Let me know. Hello. Hello, hello, hello. Hello. Hello. Uh, okay. Wonderful. I'm sorry for being late. I, uh, in 35 l students were so active in their participation that we used up all of the candy, and I was like, should I be late or should I not bring candy? And I was like, let's get a little bit more candy. Okay, so today's lecture, I hope, is going to be the most fun one, because we're going to try a really interesting experiment, not in the scientific sense, but in an educational sense of. Two students at the end of this class perform better at designing a very simple online board game. Then I. Okay. Who is familiar with monopoly? Okay. Huh? Not everybody. What? Who's not familiar with monopoly? Okay. No hands. Okay. That's good. Um, you should all have received an email with a link to a Google Docs, and you can already open this link. And we will then together come up with a design for monopoly. We are going to do a end to end system design case study. So when you are applying for jobs you will have to do something like that. So we'll basically do exactly what you would do in a system design interview. And um, yeah. So it will be about a full, uh, a full cycle case study. Uh, I guess we can't really do development and we can't really do deployment, but we can do requirements. We can do a lot of design. This is where the main focus will be. And then we'll think about our testing plan. So we will turn some stakeholder needs into user stories acceptance criteria and qualitative scenarios. Choose architectural styles and then pick some design patterns. We'll model them with UML, so we'll basically cover every single aspect of this course except for maybe the human aspect of software design and and process. I guess if we look at, we can think about what kind of process we should pick. Uh, so we can we can really cover all of the different aspects of this, um, case study. And it will be a multiplayer board game of monopoly. Um, and the question here is, can you do better than I? So yesterday I asked AI to do exactly this, to apply all of the course concepts of this course to the monopoly case study. And then we'll see how you folks collectively are doing in comparison with AI. And then we'll see if at the end of this course you are more valuable economically than I or not, I hope. I hope the result will be that you all better than I, because many of you are about to graduate. Okay. Um, let's open the Google Docs. And so I recommend you to kind of take a copy of this, make a copy of this so that you have your own version of this, um, and um, um, and then um, at some point I'm going to ask you to maybe put some, put some answers here. Um, and we will have now successfully acquired more candy for this. Um, the first step, of course, in software engineering is to think about the requirements. So when you think of a, a monopoly board game. So you want to create one of these, um, maybe, um, let me show you some examples just so that you can maybe see the design space a little bit. Um. Who has played like online monopoly at some point. Okay. Okay. So online is gonna be a little bit different from, um, from over the board. But there are quite a few different designs. Right. So there's the kind of traditional monopoly where you basically just have the board game. Um, and then you move around and then you, you end up on some fields, uh, and then you buy the field. Uh, there are also some 3D versions of monopoly. Um, and there's also, um, the version that when I was an undergrad we built that had, um, uh, a board view and then also a text UI where blind people who cannot actually see the board can then interact with monopoly via a text UI. Okay. So we have a lot of different kind of UIs here. Uh, and I guess you all know kind of what monopoly is like. And let's say we want to build a monopoly that is, um, that is like a UCLA themed monopoly. Okay. So when I have, like Royce Hall, we can buy a Rose Hall. We want to buy, um. Uh, Powell Library, this kind of things. Okay. And we have some UCLA events. Um, I guess, you know, UCLA events a little better than I do, but. Okay. Um, what are the functional requirements of that system and what are the nonfunctional requirements of that system? Um, so we're going to let you work on this individually. Um. And then we're going to look at some, uh, answers. Uh, so I guess first maybe put it in your own copy with your partner. Uh, let's work on this for maybe two minutes. Um, and then we're going to listen to some, uh, functional requirements, and then we're going to put some functional requirements in our document that we're then gonna, um, welcome together. Okay. That's giving me give you one minute. I don't have one minute. Two times. 30s. Okay. Two times. 30s. Uh, work on this with your neighbor. And show you the one has a little bit more UI. Okay, give me another 30s. Okay. Who wants to propose some functional requirements. Let's start with the functional requirements. I. This play of boy. Okay, how can we specify this? Um, in a way. Okay. I think Brandon and Will might have to move, and Shane might have to move their functional requirements to their own version. Um, so something of a board. You said we want to have a board. Um, the board displays. Um, what did you say? Of the layout. Okay. So in general, uh, specifications of requirements should be, um, so the eastern address kind of, uh, shell stand, uh, shell statement. So the, the board shall display the layout of houses and what event will occur, um, any other functional requirements that are important that are architecturally defining. So we want to think about requirements that can really impact our architecture. Okay. Yes. Okay. Anything else? Yes. Uh. Uh. Melody. Okay. I think now we're getting a little bit into kind of implementation territory. Uh, so, um, we don't necessarily want to say that they like, who should keep track of the state. Right. We want to, uh, we want to describe this requirement in a way that we have a lot of different, uh, a lot of freedom and how we implement this. Why do we want this? Why do we want to have our requirements? Not, uh, let's say, assign responsibility. And who should, um, uh, maintain the state? Any ideas that. Exactly. So the developer will probably be more experienced. And what are the right ways to implement than the people specifying the requirements? So how can we rephrase this as an actual requirement that doesn't uh. Yeah. Eliot. Each player should have. This is again looking more like an implementation decision. Then you met Melody. Okay instead of the gain keeping track of it, let's say the board should visualize it, right? Because then we're then we're describing it from the perspective of somebody actually using that using the game. Right. So um, the game shell display, the port layout houses what events will occur. Um, the balance of players, what other state should be should be displayed in the UI. Location. The balance of a player. The location of the player. Okay. Anything else? Uh, who owns the field? Each field. Uh, and then. And how many houses? Uh, we have already. Let's move this year. The layout of. Okay. Yeah. Who owns the field? We already have the houses. Okay. Anything else we need to display? Yeah. I think. That's good. Yes. We want to display. Oops. Oh. You want to display who owns each field, whose turn it is. Okay. And there's a user story. Um, given that the team has started, the player wants to see a port. Yeah, yeah, this is basically. Yeah, exactly. So the. So when we think about architecturally significant requirements, often we think about things that are larger than user stories. Um, which is why, um, for this exercise, we're not gonna use user stories. Um, but, um, yeah. Because because you should know user stories. Let's look at this user story. Um, given that the game has started, this is exactly right. So whenever we describe our user stories, we want them to start with a precondition. So what has happened before when the player um. So. Oh, this is kind of a bit of a mix of a user story and acceptance criteria and the player wants to see. So when we have acceptance criteria, we don't usually describe what the, um, what the people want. We describe how we can test that the system is conforming to our functional requirements. Um, so instead of the player wants to see, we say the player can see, the player can see the board, including layout of. So that they know what consequences will occur. Um, yeah. So okay. For for acceptance criteria, for acceptance criteria, we don't have a so that for acceptance criteria we don't have a so that um, then the player can see the point. Um, so either we want to describe it as a user story where we say as a player. I want to. See the port. So now we have a user story. But yeah, we don't want to mix user stories with with acceptance criteria under separate. Um. Okay. Quality attributes. Which important quality attributes? Should we think about when we design our digital monopoly board game? Well, um. It's like an online game. Should you move synchronously? What quality attribute is this like? If you think about the categories of quality attributes. Okay, Nathan. Would that be performance? It could. It could be. So is performance a very important quality attribute for a monopoly board game? Not as much as for other board games. Um, so let's maybe just keep like a, like a, um, performance placeholder here. Um, but what what is the most important or what are the most important quality attributes for, uh. Yeah. Familiar? Uh, I want to say melody. Melody. If it should be a networked one, then of course it should be interoperability. What is an interoperability quality attribute that is important? Okay. So interoperability is not just about the sending. It's also about the interpretation of the data. So we want to basically say how many. Um, so what's the proportion of exchange data that is uh, interpreted correctly between um, all of the different clients. And what would you say would be, uh, like a good threshold percentage wise for like a monopoly board game? 50%. As a user, you would be happy if you have only 50% of your fields. Would be will also be shown on the on the person's end that you're playing with. Okay I would, I would, I would set the bar a little bit high I would say should be 100% right. So there's no excuse for monopoly not to have correctly interpretable data. So uh, between all clients, uh, okay. Like data exchange between all monopoly clients should be interpreted. To correctly with an accuracy of 100%. Okay. Anything else? David. How so? Let's say you want a monopoly. That. Yes. Christmas Eve. Exactly. So for monopoly, we want to have a lot of different themes. We want to have like a gazillion different themes. So we can call this modify ability, or we can call it a change ability. And we want to we want to say, um, um, how do we want to phrase this as a quality attribute? It's it's like. Nathan. Game rules can be. Game rules can be changed. Okay. What do we think about this call attribute scenario? Does anybody have feedback on how we can improve this or like something they would would demand improvement? Yes. My game rules like the actual. The be more arbitrary, the more esthetic characteristics. That's right. So we want to like, speak about like like there are probably some game rules that should not be changed. They should just remain the same. But there's some aspects of the game that should be changed. So we want to be very precise about what aspect should be changeable and then can be changed. Well, you could argue it software, like all kinds of software, can ever be changed. That's why it's software. Right. Uh, so we want to have, uh, a very concrete scenario of what aspect of the software should be changed. And we want to have a precise metric, some metric that measures the modify ability. Okay. So let's tackle the first part first. So what part of the game rules should be modifiable. Maybe somebody was not in the first three rows has an opinion on this. And I give them some opportunity to to also weigh in. Yes. Um, I would, you know, let me grab. Okay. The graphics shaders for, um, different seasonality. Or that's it. Changing the graphics shaders for seasonality should, uh, let's maybe have a few different ones of those. Okay. So we have the we have the graphics shaders. Is there anything else that would also need to change? Yes. Uh, we like to see like, uh, like the properties and the properties. Right. Anything else that needs to be changed? Like monopoly. Normal. What's the difference between the two? I think one has, like, one speed dial and another has two dice. Oh, interesting. Interesting. Anything else that needs to be changed? There's one aspect of the game we've not actually mentioned yet here of this community cards. I like these cards. When you enter like a like a field and you need to draw a card of chance cards and Community chest cards. Okay, so we said, um, we set the properties. We said, um, what else do we say? The, um, let's say, um, uh, so some aspects of game behavior. Let's say number of dice. That's it. Just say explicitly the number of dice. Um, I said the one we said. Somebody said something else. Yeah. Play some versions that you can credit card paid. 000. Our software should also somehow make money. It doesn't have to actually like, oh the currency types okay. The currency types. Um, and then like cards. Okay. Um, okay. So now we've described all of the different scenarios that could be changed. How do we measure modify ability? How do we measure modify ability? Yes, I can. No. Yes. Okay. A lot of liability. So it's like if it's testable then. They are often correlated. But we want to. We want to pick a metric that's not kind of like circular then preferring another quality attribute. We want to pick a metric that we can somehow measure individually. Any idea? Yeah. We do like time cost of recreating a feature. Yes, we could do that. So we could describe this and let's say like developer hours. Um, well, like developer time. Um, so we could say. Property. Changing properties. Should take less than. I don't know, a week. We could see changing the number of dice. As for simplicity, just say. This should all be less than a week. Okay, well, let's maybe think about other. Measures of changeability. Okay, that's a really interesting one when it comes to cards and properties. Okay. We think of a very, very strong modify ability quality attribute for the cards and the properties, and that impacts the way how we design the system. ChatGPT. I tried it with GPT five. It was really bad somehow. Uh, so I'm not going to show you any of the GPT five answers because they are absolutely terrible. Opus 4.8 Max was really good. You have an answer? What functions would need to be okay? I would I would argue the person who picks different codes and properties is probably somebody who is a professional game master, right? That is somebody who may not necessarily have, let's say, a computer science degree, but maybe somebody who has a design or arts degree and, um, some okay. For you, obviously. Um, so how could we make sure that somebody who is not a computer scientist can also change? Let's say it looks like a monopoly apps where you can change your maps here. Yes. Users should be able to. How could we describe this as a requirement? Okay. Um. This is good. Okay, let's let's do it. Let's do this. Let's do this. Okay. As a user. Um, I want to update cards and properties. So that. I can customize. The theme of the game for different target audiences. Okay, so if it's the actual end user, this user story makes sense. If we want this to be, uh, a game master, then we want to we want to make this a little bit more concrete. So whenever you write a user story and I'm pretty sure you will have to write a user story, um, very soon. Um, uh, you want to make your, um, your user as concrete as possible. That's important. Um, so we want to say a game master. I want to update the codes and properties so that I can customize the theme of the game for different target audiences. Thank you for fixing typos. Um, okay. I think, though, those are probably going to be enough changeability requirements. Are there any other? Quality attributes that somehow impact the design of our game. Well. Usability and accessibility. Yes, exactly. Okay. So we have usability and accessibility. Usability and accessibility. How do we specify usability properties? You've not learned this in class, so it's totally fine not to have an answer. Nathan. Uh, and anybody else who has an idea. Okay. So the way how you specify quality attributes in general is that you describe a scenario and then you add a measure, and the scenario would be, um, let's say a new user. Um, should be able to learn, um, uh, how to play the game. How to play a complete game. Successfully within less than five. Minutes of tutorial. Um, this this could be a usability, uh, cost attribute. Right? So this is basically saying, uh, the discoverability if you've taken, uh, the course with, um, uh, you know, strewn, you've probably heard about discoverability. Um. Accessibility is interesting. One how would we define accessibility? Yep. I was like, I might. That's less of an accessibility property than it is a, um. So it doesn't. Accessibility. This is not how I spell it. Okay. Um, this is more of, like, a robustness. This is, uh, the system should continue to operate normally, even with network latencies. Latency dropping to. I don't know, x milliseconds. And for accessibility, I would just say we want to have the, uh vc gga 2.2 AA standard. Mm. That right? Okay. Is that. That's a great question. Is following a, uh, standard, um, a design decision or is that a requirement, or are there situations in which this may be a design decision and situations in which that may be a requirement? That's a great question. I love this question. You're going to get some candy just for this question. Any thoughts on this? Yeah. Ends being like more of a case where there's like. Or like any like. About it that much. It's like a preference thing as opposed to like maybe. Or like a requirement. It's more. Uh, you know, that's the target audience for. There are times that I might not. Okay. Um. So we live in a world where the government has quite, um, a few decisions that it makes. And accessibility is one of those. There is the, um, Americans for, uh, Disability Act or something like this. Um, a. I don't know how it's called, but this actually makes, uh, WCA1 point a 2.1 aa, uh, the legal standard. So if your system is commercially used and does not follow the WCA g 2.1 AA, you can be fined, uh, and you will be fined. Um, so in that case, uh, if we would describe this as we follow the lowest bar of the legal standard and would not be a design decision, because we do not have the choice to pick the laws that we abide by. Um, we have to follow the law. And, um, if we exceed the legal standard. Uh, this is, by the way, uh, the standard that is legally required, I think, for all, uh, public serving institutions. So this is why UCLA is now updating all of the systems to be compliant with that standard. Um, because this is now the new standard for public serving institutions. Um, um, yeah. So in this case, we, uh, would describe it as a, uh, legal requirement, as a legal constraint, a legal constraint that, uh, may impact our, our design decisions. So this is. A legal constraint, and you will likely have a lot of legal constraints in the systems you'll be working in, and we'll consider those as requirements as well, because we do not have the choice to affect them. What? Literally 37 minutes in. We've just finished requirements. Okay, let's speed up for design a little bit. Um, okay, let's have a look at what what Claude did. Let's look at what Claude did. Okay, so, Claude, um, uh, made a wonderful summary of what the difference between requirements and design decisions are for you to remember for the exam. So a requirement would be the player's C balance updates as soon as money changes hands. Uh, this is more of a kind of, uh, mix of functional and quality attribute requirement. The new channel cards can be added without recoding the game. This is one that I like a lot. I think this is a really good definition of a modify ability requirement, because it's saying you don't have to make any code, any changes to the code. So this is a runtime modify ability attribute. The game state is consistent for every connected player. This I don't really think this is a functional requirement. It's just not really. Um, yeah. So this one I, I don't like that much. Um, yeah. Uh, design decisions. Okay. This is just examples of design decisions we're going to make. We're going to make our own design decisions. Um, a use case diagram could look like this. So we have the player, we have the game designer, and we have the bank. Uh, I would, um, not draw it this way. Why would I not draw the bank as a as an actor? Why is this a big mistake? Why did I mess up here? Well, because the bank is. Yeah. So the bank is, uh, is not a player. The bank, especially in a in a digital board game, is part of the game. The bank is part of the game. So the bank is a part of the system is not an actor that uses the system. Okay, so does it make sense? Yeah. Yeah. Um. Yeah. This one. Um. Okay. So extensibility is a specific kind of modify ability where the modification is just adding something without changing something that is existing. So that's that's the difference between. So modify abilities any kind of modification. This can include adding something removing something or replacing something. And then extensibility is a special kind where you just add something new. Um, but so you can think of extensibility as a, as a subset of modify ability. I sometimes use them, um, in the same sentence, um, so that you can just that you're exposed to both terms. But yeah, this is the difference. Okay. Any other questions? Okay, so. So far, so far, you're holding up pretty well to I, um. Okay, so these are the functional requirements. I think this one is pretty straightforward. Um, and then Claude, describe a set of user stories. As a player, I want to see my balance update the moment it changes so that I can make informed decisions. That one is good. As a player, I want to draw a chance when I land on a chance field so that the game, uh, is less unpredictable. I like this, I like this so that quite, quite a bit. Uh, as the game designer, I want to add neutrons kind of changing the code. So this is basically just rephrasing of what we've seen before. Okay then. We have some, uh, given we're not given a player with a balance of $100 and an active game, when the player passes, go and collect $200, and then every player screen show is that player's balance. Um, this is a really, really nice, uh, user story. There's a really nice user story because this is having a very, very strong assertion here. Uh, acceptance criteria. Okay. Yeah. We're not going to do this. Uh, I'm not going to do this, I think. Okay. Okay. Yeah, I already put the ends up there, so we're not going to do that. I'm not going to do that. Um, okay. Oh, let's look at the quality output scenarios that it came up with. Uh, yeah. So, uh, because, uh, Claude does have access to the, um, uh, more precise definitions. So we in this class call this a stimulus, and this just a measure. Um, but in the six part quality output framework, this would be a stimulus, and this would be a response measure. Um, what do we think about these quality output scenarios? Are they good or are they bad? Do they pass the course? Which one do we like the most? Well. It's interesting that it says if the. Under three seconds. Mhm. Why would it not try? So this is basically saying that if a client disconnects due to unavailable network, um, the game continues without this player. Um, yeah. You could you could add something like it tries to reconnect. Um, or you could, you could say something like, um, oh, that's like an eye playing. So here, this this one, I actually agree with you. It's not very good because it's unclear what this actually means. Continues for the rest. Like what happens with that player? Do we just skip this player's turn for the rest of the game? Do this. The players to collect rent. Right. So if you land on their property like this is a bit unclear what this means, right? Um, it's also not necessarily a nice availability requirement. So this one I agree with you is really bad. Uh, but I think the other ones are, uh, generally decent. Um, like, this one is nice 200 milliseconds. That's kind of like a nice, um, uh, usability latency. Yes. For like, this game scenario, like a performance is not that important where they. Top three. I agree with you. I agree with you. Um, this is not going to be as architecturally impacting s as the ones that we came up with. So I think our, uh, quality attributes are actually much more useful. Um, like interoperability, this one is much more important. Um, like, usability is much more important. Accessibility is a legal constraint. Okay, cool. Nice. What's the next step after we've now identified our architecturally relevant requirements? What is our next step? What do we do next? Yes, David. We want to. What address exactly? And, um, how do we go to go about that? Like the ones that. So I guess it's always trade offs, but it's not really. That. That's right. So we want to. We want to make sure that we addressed all of them using design decision. So we want to think about multiple different approaches, how we can design this system in the presence of these requirements. Okay. What kind of design alternatives can we come up with. Talk to a neighbor let's say 30s. Okay. Any any thoughts on high level design decisions? Yeah, maybe, uh. Uh uh uh uh, making a movie would automatically tell the other. On the other. Right. Oops. Um, yeah. We can think of a publish subscribe architecture. So now we move to design. Oops. Nope. Design. So option one. Publish. Subscribe for data exchange. Okay. What? It would be another option we could consider besides publish. Subscribe for for data exchange. Yeah. Um. Mhm. And then we also have some kind of it's a peer to peer. Decentralized architecture. Okay. What impact do these decisions have on our functional requirements and our quality attributes? That's the main decision, right? That that really impacts. What we are doing. So publish. Subscribe. What advantages and disadvantages does this have? Yeah. I don't know. Kind of almost like my machine, because it's like at some point it's like it's so venture, it's so frequent that it's. Yeah. It's also scalable in terms of events if you want to add new events. Right. Do we want to add new events? Is that part of our modify ability. So we have identified that a popular subscribe has benefits in general for modify ability. But now the question is does it have the kinds of modify ability. Um. Uh advantages that we need for the system. That's the question. Any thoughts on this? I think in some settings, like game settings, you turn off some. Which events would you turn off that your, uh, team ahead of you? Uh, opposing player one to collect rent from you? I would I would want to love to turn off that event, but I think that would that would interfere with our interoperability requirement. Yeah, I guess. We're trying to. But like this car. But that's the essence of creating. It's like. Right? Um. Yeah. So it seems like it doesn't really, um, it doesn't really apply to the situation. Um, um, yeah. Also, the question kind of how do we do networking, right? Because, uh, do we just use RDS or, uh. Yeah, right. Uh, so the question about networking is still unsolved. So question about networking is still unsolved. Okay. What do you think about client services? Peer to peer. Yeah. Uh, you're adding a middle man now. In technical. Probably more. Yeah. Back home. Mhm. Mhm. Okay. I think Noah in a really, really interesting situation. Right. So now we're in a really interesting situation. So we have to make a decision between a classic client server where we have to provide our own server. So con we have to provide our own server. This means our operating cost goes up and then we have pro uh this may be more. Scalable and more performant because, um, when we have, uh. Client server system, every single player has to send all of the messages to all of the other clients, right? So we put a very high, um, um, drain on the local network of each of the clients and then, um, um, yeah, maybe more scalable and performant. So now we are like, okay, is operating cost is this a constraint? So then now we think about our requirements again we've not really thought about this is really interactive moment. So now we're making a design decision that impacts a requirement that we've not really thought about before. Like what is what is our budget. Right. Do we have budget for uh, for our own server or do we not have budget for our own server? So, um, when this happens, what do we do? So we are in an agile team. Okay. Now now we're going to review the agile methodology a little bit. So we are in an agile team. What do we do. We make we want to make a decision. But our decision is blocked by something that we've not considered before. Yes. Exactly, exactly. We are going to ask the Scrum Master. The Scrum Master is then figuring out if we get budgeted for this. Uh, amazing. I love it. Um, okay. So the scrum master said. Yeah, okay. We have some. We have some operating cost, uh, that we can use. So we have enough money for the client server. Okay. Then should we should we pick client server or should we go with peer to peer. So this this may be more scalable and more performant. Again this doesn't really show up in our like we have like low latency. We have some robustness here. But um yeah. So the question is kind of to what degree are those impacted by this design decision. What do you think. Mhm. Mhm. Like. Oh. Uh, yeah. So the goal was basically to make money with us. So we want to not just play this among ourselves, but we want to code this, and then we want to become rich. Yes. Software. Yep. Oh. Especially I like I have this. Right. Okay. This is important. Okay. So we can we cannot really make money if people can just, you know, send each other, uh, somebody buys it, and then they just disappear to everybody. I we could we could work around with that, around this, uh, using other means. Right. But we don't necessarily think that's a good idea. Okay. That's good. So the next step, what's the next step? Now, if we have kind of made a design decision on like our really, really high level architecture, we've decided we have a client server. Uh, what what what do we do next in our detailed design? Yes. Just compose the one. Our problem is, how do we do this? I guess. Okay, let's think about the software more than the hardware. Maybe somebody else. What do we do? What do we do next? So we've we've made our really high level architectural decision. Now we want to make more detailed architectural decisions. How do we do this. So your interviewer asks you what next. So you know your in your system design interview. You have made this decision. Your interviewer says what's next? What what do you tell your interviewer. I know a lot of you have jobs. You went through a system design interview, right? No, no. You got jobs without system design interviews. That's crazy. Yes. You can start to design your own. Yes. We do a design doc, and in our design doc, we want to model our, um, systems. And in this class, we use UML for this. Okay. Um, draw some UML diagrams. You can either use the UML editor um, and this URL um, or you can draw it on paper, or you can use your own, uh, UML tool if you like. And let's, let's give you five minutes and you can either draw your diagrams or you can have a break or you can you can parallelize the two. We're going to give you five minutes, uh, for UML and also for break allocate it however you like. Hi, Nina. Oh, you have a question? Oh, okay. Okay. Please. Um. I can't help but think of all. So. And then exactly the. It isn't all that long. Doing a little. Though. Okay if you're drawing UML diagrams, kind of like a a mid time question. What kind of diagrams are you drawing? Hmhm. What kind of diagrams are you drawing? Hmm. Class diagrams. Uh, maybe. Mm. So I think a sequence diagram is the most important one for this one. I think sequence diagram is the most important. Oh yeah. We also have a whiteboard. If somebody wants to draw on the whiteboard please use the whiteboard. Okay, this is up. This is the opportunity to get life feedback on your diagrams. Um, when you are done, can you put your diagrams in our shared doc? So we'll. You can take a screenshot or if you've drawn on paper. Maybe use your phone or something like that. So, um, put it on the whiteboard. That's the opportunity to get feedback on your diagrams. Before the exam. Taught my 35 students. Thanos is attacking Earth. The only ones left. Software construction skills. Should I maybe told you that? Anyways, my 35 year exams are always really fun. Maybe I'm going to sew this. This. This quarter, I decided that I'm going to make the entire, um, entire, uh, 130 exam myself. I'm not going to use Tas for that. Um. Very nice. We have a component. Connect the diagram. Client app, game server, game database, event bus, game engine. We have WebSockets here. We have Rest and Json. Here. Okay. That's really good. So we use different connectors for different purposes. That's great. I would probably not draw those with arrows, but I think this may just be my cause. My. My UML editor automatically adds arrows there, I think. I'm not sure if you can actually remove those arrows. Um, yeah, I would, I would remove these arrows for me for my exam solution. Okay. Um, and then we have the game engine. The game engine and the game server are separate. Um, why why has the game engine and the game server separate? Well, uh. Okay. So what is a component. So we've drawn components here. What are components. What is a component? Elliott an independently deployable runtime unit like a process. So Game Server is a device, right? Game server is the device that then runs probably all of these. So all of these are deployed on a game server. So I wouldn't model game server as a component. Um, um, yeah. You have some SQL between the game, the game engine I would do and the game database. And then the event bus is like publish, okay. So we can publish to the event bus, but nobody can subscribe to this. So we also need to we also need to subscribe point. Somebody has to subscribe to the event bus as well. Just publishing would not be enough. Um okay. Do you have any other diagrams? To have a state, a sequence diagram or class diagram. Okay? No. Well, then we can look at. What Claude came up with. Oops. Somehow clicker is not really working today. Because there's so much redundancy in its, uh, in its answers. It's impressive how bad it is. Um. I guess. What can't. One can say that the submissions you have handed in, we have like 70 students. We have one diagram. That's no redundancy. That's good. But, um. Well, okay. So it came up with, um, sub problems, uh, CSC cards. Okay. So clots component diagram doesn't follow UML standards. I mean, maybe I shouldn't give feedback. You should give feedback. You should give feedback. Okay. What do we think about this component diagram. Yes. Like. Kind of. Like. I mean, especially in the back. That's right. You definitely have database running in a separate process. You've also not really said how they communicate, right? If they communicate over the network, do they communicate like wire what kind of protocol they communicate? Um observer update provide. This is just absolutely terrible. You can do better than that. You can do way better than that. Okay. The sequence diagram, this one is interesting. Okay. So um, because I fed this with the design, um, and then my team came up with this a few years ago. Uh, it does, uh, solve a slightly different subproblem than the ones that, that you've defined as the requirements. So this one is also solving the, um, the issue that we have multiple uses at the same time. So for example, for accessibility, you may want to have a 2D UI for people who are, uh, sighted. And then we want to have a text UI for people who are unsighted, uh, and therefore we're going to have multiple different kinds of UI that are connected to the same game logic. Uh, so this is why the sequence diagram looks like this, that the UI is registering itself. Um, and then when after it has registered itself, whenever the balance changes, you receive an update that the balance has changed. So this is basically saying, uh, you can dynamically register yourself as a UI. Um, and then we have a client server plus publish subscribe. I don't know why they really want to use publish subscribe. Um, to me it doesn't really make sense. Um, you have uh, also, these many stereotypes make no sense. So you have a game server. You have player client one. Player client two. Player client three. You have some model few controllers and observers here, but this is a component diagram and a component diagram. You're not really supposed to, uh, describe these because these are not, uh, component diagram views. Um, yeah. So client does kind of very poorly at this. Um, but um, yeah. Okay. And any other submissions besides the one we have. I guess nobody here wants to pass the class or nobody knows how to draw UML like a week before the exam. Uh, yes, you can verbally explain it, of course. Uh, okay. So security graded like like. Okay. We can draw together class diagram. Okay. We have a class. Like we see that there's like a like since we want. Make a profile. A profile account. So in the proposed. Passport. Profile account, and then the profile account has attributes of number of games played. It's like username. Number of games played. And then. Password. And then what else? Uh. So. Okay. Uh. Um, and uh, so we have like, which is not a given thing. What? What relationship? With that being. Why? Okay. Okay. Um. Okay. While we're drawing these these, uh, these diagrams, um. We can maybe think about the creation of the game. So let's say we have all of the fields and we have all of the, um, we have all of the chance cards. Um. Community Chest cards. And we have our fields. Um, and let's say they're all aggregated by the, uh, by the game. How do we create those? How does the process of creating this object structure look like? Think about different options for creating these objects. Talk to your neighbor. Okay. Any ideas? Any suggestions on what our creation should be like? Yeah, honey. That would be created. Okay, so the game should be responsible for creating the community chess cards in the fields and the channel cards. Okay. Any other ideas? Yeah, like I guess. You'd want to go to. Or something you've uploaded and you like customized fonts you want to like. Like when you're creating the game, you're loading. Okay. How to create channels. Cards. Community chest cards. And fields optional. The game creates them. Option B. We load them. From a database. Okay. And then somebody who was not in the first three rows describes option C. Yes, you. The user credits. With. How does the user create an object like? It would have to be something like some kind of interface where they can design it and look at it themselves. Present know. Okay. An object is an instance of a class. Right. So it we're talking about programing language constructs. Um, so you're talking about an interaction mechanism. I'm talking about a software design decision. Right. So the user can create the object. So some somebody some code has to create the object. Which code should create the object of the fields and the chance cards and the community chest cards. Oh, boy, that does not look good. It does not look good. Nobody has ever heard of anything like Creational design patterns. Like build a factory, method, abstract factory. These are not terms anybody here has heard. Oh, that's not good. I'm glad. I'm glad you don't have to defend the universe against us. Okay. Yes. That's right. Okay. Abstract factory is another option. Thank you. Okay. Abstract factory. Okay. What are what are advantages and disadvantages of these options with respect to our requirements? So as a reminder, our requirements um modify ability. We want to we want the game master to update those. And we want. All of the other quality attributes. How does how do these impact our design options? That's maybe talk about the Abstract Factory first. How does having an abstract factory impact? Our requirements. These are requirements. Yana. Okay, let's think this through. Let's think this through. If we have an abstract factory, and we want a non-technical user to be able to add new cards. Does the abstract Factory help with this? Exactly, exactly. This is a really interesting insight. So if our software design should allow users to dynamically add new, um. Uh, chance cards, even if they have like a special role, if it has to be a non-technical user that does not change the code, any of the factory patterns don't really apply. Yes. And he not an to automate some. And then we have a different design pattern. That's a buildup. That's a buildup. If you take a spec, that's a buildup. If you take a spec and then you build it, it's a builder. Okay, so our abstract factory has the con of code. Changes are necessary. It has the pro of, uh, being flexible as a flexibility. Uh. Our builder can take us back. Exxon. No code changes needed. Okay database. What do you think about load them from a database? Yeah. It's. I mean. You still need a design. I don't think you need a design pattern. So design patterns are common, reoccurring, common, acceptable solutions to reoccurring problems. So we don't necessarily need a design pattern. But you are correct that loading it from a data base. And let's say these creational patterns they solve different subproblems. Right. So the the subproblem here is where do we store this. Do we store this somewhere just on the disk. Do we store this in a database. Do we. This is a kind of a storage subproblem. This is a once we have our spec what do we do. So they are orthogonal. Yes. Why the. You know, you hear like. Well, you have, I guess you have the cards. You have the fields. Um, we still usually consider it a build up. Uh, if it's just takes some if it just takes us back, and then we have, like, different kind of versions of those. Um. Oh. See, it's, uh, upstairs and, uh. Like. Like a. Is it because. Um. Well. So the reason why a factory method is not on there is because nobody mentioned it. You are the first one to mention the factory method. Um, I think they have basically the same pros and cons for this purpose. They basically have the same pros and cons. Okay. So this is a different subproblems. So this is complimentary to the builder. Um and this is a responsibility assignment. So this is also um. Yes, there are not necessarily orthogonal design options. So when we make our design decisions, we want to think about the subproblems. And then for each subproblem we want to think about the design options. And then the design options should then be evaluated based on the different requirements that we have. Um, and then we want to make a decision based on this. Okay. How much time do we have? Okay. We have like, 15 more minutes. Um, which topic would you like to practice in the last 15 minutes on this example? Yes. That's your exam prep lecture. I was expecting more people to be interested in free exam prep. But I guess that's maybe not the case. Maybe everybody feels so well prepared that they are here just for the exit ticket. Yes. Yes. Yes, that. That's what I'm saying. Well, I mean. Something like that. Hmm. You say this sounds fun? Yeah, I hope so. I mean, you know, if funding is the property of an exam that is not necessarily, uh, in the, um, um, it's not necessarily something that a lot of instructors are optimizing for. Um, great ability is another property that is kind of important. Uh, so we'll have a trade off between these two. Um, so I tried to make something like this work in the exam. Uh, these are the kind of exams that I love giving. Um, um, last time I gave, uh, an exam for this, it was a, um, puberty storage, uh, um, system that has to optimize for temperature and humidity. Um. Anyways, um. Anything you want to practice? Yes. Megan. Yes. Okay. Um, what part of this system do we want to test? I think that's the first question, right? So what part of the system do we want to test? Any ideas? Let's focus on functional requirements. Let's focus on functional requirements. Let's focus on, um testing the testing the game logic. Okay. So let's look at our let's look at our system. Uh so we have some chance cards here. And let me just tell you, the way how I would implement the player is with a state design pattern where you have a player state, um, that is abstract. Can I make this? No, I cannot um, how do I make it abstract? Oh, general questions like. Okay, that's a great question. Well, we'll do this afterwards. So the, um, I guess while I'm drawing, uh. So now now we we're describing the classes that are just purely in the, um, that are just purely on the, uh, on the server. I think this is someone. Oh, no. Oh, no. Yeah. Bugs. Bugs everywhere. Okay. Uh, yeah. I guess we can really try this like this. Um. Okay. When we talk about testing, uh, what are the two main properties of good tests? Yes, yes. They are specification dependent, right? Then only testing the specification and not testing the implementation. What is another property of a test? Yes. Mm. Exactly. So we want to increase the coverage. What kind of coverage metrics have we taught you? Yes, mine covers it, not. Line coverage. Line coverage. Line coverage doesn't exist in our course. We call it statement coverage, and that there's a big difference between statement coverage and line coverage because they don't necessarily have a 1 to 1 mapping. So we have statement coverage and then we have branch coverage. What is branch coverage. Um covering all the. That's right. So for every single, if we want to cover the true branch and the full sponge, what is path coverage and somebody else. Yes. All possible combinations of branches. I think I think this is a this is an interesting phrasing. Um, yeah, I think this works. So we want to think about all potential kind of combinations of paths through the program. Um, it's not purely just thinking about, um, just multiplying like branches with each other because there could be some paths that are infeasible. Uh, how do we determine that a path is feasible or infeasible? Yeah. We draw a control flow graph. And then after we've drawn the control flow graph, we. Symbolic execution. How does symbolic execution work? Yeah. Is there, like, a combination of a given condition? So we call it the path condition. So the path condition are all of the conditions that have to be true for us to reach the statement. And then we look at the effect that the statement has on the state of the program. So for example, whenever a variable is changing its value because of an assignment, the effect is that afterwards. And the program state, we have updated the value of this variable in the in the program state. Um. Um, so the path conditions are then basically doing this for every single statement. So a very big statement. You, uh, you look at the path condition of the statement. Um, and then, uh, you look at your, uh, the, uh, effect on, uh, the path conditions afterwards. So if you have, let's maybe look at, uh, a nice example. So let me look at a nice example. Okay. So we have if x. Greater than one. Okay. Let's say y plus. Plus. And then we say if y greater than five x plus plus. Okay, let's run some symbolic execution. Um, on this example. Okay. What is the path condition of our first statement? Well. Uh, what is the path condition of this statement? When? When is this statement executed? Uh. Always. Always. This is true. Okay. What is the path condition of this statement? Hmm. Exactly. Okay. What is the effect of this statement? Right? There's nothing. Right. It's just true. What is the effect of this statement? Like this? Yes, exactly. So y equals y plus one. Okay. So now. Now things get tricky. Now things get tricky. Now things get tricky. So when we look at this statement this is a combination of two different branches. Right. So we have the uh f1 F2. So we have the F1 or the F2 right. Okay. So we have we, we either take one path or we take the other path. Okay let's do the the first one first. Let's do F1 also F1. True. And this is f one false okay F1 true. So we take the true branch here. What is the path condition of this statement in that case. Yeah. Why greater than five? Oh, sorry for this. For this statement. Just the if statement. If. Okay. So if so, we take all of the path conditions from the path that we're looking at. So we're looking at the true path. So for the true path we have this as a path condition. So our path condition is x greater than zero and y equals y plus one. And then what effect do we have of this statement. No effect. This is just true. So if. One. That's false. What path condition do we have? And the fourth branch. Less than. X is less than or equal to zero. Y. Uh, because we know that the previous thing. Exactly. We are negating the path condition of the true branch. Is there some kind of effect that has has happened already? No. That's right. So there's no other effect. Does this one this still does not have an effect. Okay. So the path condition of this statement is then just the uh or combination of these two. Okay. This makes sense so far. Any questions so far. Okay then. Let's not now. Things getting really difficult. Okay. Now you're going to look at this statement. The statement in the case of. If one true. Okay, let's just add this on on top of these two. Right. We just add this on top of these two. Okay. Which additional condition do we have to add in the um. Uh, F1 two branch. This is provided that we're executing the inside of. So we're at this statement now. This statement we have. Okay. This is the effect. So the effect is I guess let's call this x prime x prime equals x plus one. Is there another path condition. Hmm. Exactly why. Plus one is greater than five. Y y plus one. Exactly. Yes. So because we've incremented y with one, this goes into y plus one squared. I guess we can keep this if y plus equals y plus one. Okay. And then in the false branch and the false branch. That's just the lie. Exactly. Okay, so here is just why is greater than five? And what effect do we have? X prime equals x plus one. Same one as above. Same one as above. Okay, this makes sense. Yeah. What's the point of this? The point of symbolic execution is to find, uh. Uh, test input examples that increase our coverage. We want to have 100% path coverage. So we now know how we can reach 100% path coverage. Um, we we know that, uh, these, uh, the, uh, conditions we have to satisfy to reach, um, this statement through all of its possible paths. Yes. It is impossible sometimes to achieve 100% pass coverage because are. Um, I guess. Natural number of. Cases. Okay. So path coverage unless we have infeasible paths, which then, you know, discards the path path coverage is usually feasible because usually path coverage is finite unless you have some kind of like unbounded recursion or you have some reflection if you've just use if, unless and loops, uh, it's usually feasible to reach 100% path coverage. It is impossible to exhaustively test the system. So this is the difference. Exhaustively test the system means that we've covered every single execution case that the system can have. And that symbolic execution is to be used to achieve like a or just to achieve like. So this is a good question. So we we have to decide ourselves what our correct test adequacy criteria are. Um, and um, the test adequacy criteria, uh, depend on our, uh, requirements. The more uh, the higher our requirements are. Let's say we want to build spacecraft systems. We want to probably have 100% path coverage if we want to, like, build a digital monopoly board game, uh, path 100%. Path coverage isn't really the goal. Right. So the goal, um, it would then be, um, uh, to reach the level of confidence that is, that is appropriate for the use case. Okay. Other questions? Okay. Then we are kind of out of time. Okay. So, um, we at the very end of this quarter, uh, UCLA, uh, always appreciates your feedback on this course. Um, for me, it's the second time teaching this course. Um, um, I would love for for everyone to, uh, leave a review. Uh, as they like to say on YouTube, please like, comment and subscribe. Subscribe. Maybe it doesn't necessarily apply to 130 unless you are a junior. Uh, you may take another course with me. Um, yeah. So you can you can use this QR code. You can use this link, um, to leave your review. Um, I usually read all of the comments and I try to, uh, incorporate all of the comments in my next version. Um, I think this course will undergo a very large, uh, change at some point. Um, um, at some point, um, because we, we are currently trying to make capstones, two quota systems, uh, two quota courses. So if there are topics that you believe, um, you would like to see in this course. Um, you know, feel free to put this in there. Um, and, um. Yeah. Um, what else can I say? Okay. I think that's probably it for this one. Uh, the exit ticket password es has escaped my mind. The exit ticket password has indeed escaped to my mind. Um. That's the wrong course. Oh, Bruins. Okay. Just. You know how to spell prunes capital B, and then I will see you on Thursday or Friday if you have signed up for the earlier exam. Um, I'm going to send you a, uh, an email where the exam will happen. Uh, if you've not signed up for the earlier exam, we will not have the seat for you. And we only have seats for the students who have signed up. Um, it will be at Thursday noon. Uh, if you have not done this, then I'm going to see you, um, on Friday at 8 a.m. I think we're going to be in this room. Um, and the exam will be three, three hours. Uh, you're going to have a cheat sheet. Uh, just like for the for the midterm. So, uh, one page, handwritten, uh, back in front. Um. Yeah. So I think the. Yeah I think the exam. So I, I like questions where students have multiple ways of showing that they've understood the course concepts. These are the kind of exams that I generally like. This is why I like exams. Kind of like the, um, exercises we've had. Uh, right now I am usually not a big fan of multiple choice questions, because multiple choice questions don't test whether you can generate an answer. Multiple choice questions only test whether you are able to recognize an answer. Um, which means that there's a lot of noise. There's much more noise than signal. Um. Yeah. Um, we will, of course, have to grade all of them by the grading deadline. Uh, so we have some kind of mix of opened and closed ended questions. Um, I generally do not like closed ended questions. Um. Um, yeah. So you can see this kind of SEO practice exam. Um, you can see this kind of as a practice exam. And yeah, as you see when you. I haven't actually gone over. Uh, yeah. It's not really. I mean, I don't have time for that. Yeah. When you look at what what Claude has come up with, um. You see that you still have a job? Um, like Claude came up with, uh, some kind of factory even before it's, uh. So. So. Right. So Claude is picking. Claude is picking a factory, even though it explicitly stated in its own requirements that the, um, that adding new code should not require changes to the code. Like when you have a factory, like you have to change the code. Um, so I hope that you all have a much better understanding of, of software engineering than Claude. Um, and I guess after your exam on Friday or Thursday, we will see whether this is going to be the case. Um. I think the first half of this course was way more fun than last quarter, because we had a lot of interactions. Um, I think the second half, I guess, I mean, you've all been in this lecture once, maybe a little bit. Um. Less so. Um, I would recommend you. I would recommend you. This is just a personal recommendation. Um, many of you are about to graduate and enter a workplace that is, um. That is laying off people who, uh. Just kind of, um, doing their work normally. Right? When a lot of people at meta are incredibly afraid of their jobs right now. Um, because they see that all of the, um, I is, um, is observing every single thing that they are doing. Um, and since we had the gen lecture on Tuesday and some students ask about, oops, uh, what do you think about token mixing? I think, um, if you see your own life as a brain token mixing, uh, activity, I think you'll do great. I think you'll do great. Um. I think. Um. Now, I don't have students in this class that I believe have this mindset. Um, I know some students in the class where I'm not really sure if they just don't have this mindset in this class, uh, or if they don't have it in general. I hope it's just that they don't have this mindset just in this class, but that they have it in all of the other things that they're interested in, and that it's not interested in any kind of software engineering activities in their career. Um, but if you believe that you have not really practiced a brain token mixing approach, and then you sit in the lectures and you kind of like half listened to it and you're kind of like looking at a screen. I would recommend you to rethink this approach. Um, um, very quickly, because I think the economy that you are entering, if you are entering, uh, an economic position in the near future, um, will automate these kinds of people. It will automate people who are, um, uh, who are more passive, who are not, who don't have agency, who don't, um, uh, have creativity, who don't have a need for cognition. These are exactly the kind of people who will be automated away. So I would recommend you to, um, to not be that kind of person. Um, just person recommendation. I wanted to give you this before. Before you leave, because I think. I care about. I care about this generation. I hope that we will not have this kind of mass joblessness that people like Jeff Hinton, uh, are talking about. Um, and I think you're all great people, and I think you should all you should all have, uh, have a good life, but I think. I think this class has been. Has been my attempt of of stimulating this using approaches that empirical evidence is suggesting is doing this which is active learning, which is not just conveying information, but is trying to make your brain work. Um.