[Auto-generated transcript. Edits may have been applied for clarity.] Test. Test. Okay. Awesome. All right. Thanks so much. All right. Hello, everyone. Um, I'm just here to make a quick announcement. Uh, my name is Geo. I am currently involved in a research study here on campus. And my research is hoping to explore the experiences of queer students who are involved in Stem academics and as well as their counter spaces, which is something that I, um, have found very deep interest in. And I have crafted an online survey, and I am currently looking for participants for it. Um, there are a few, um, eligibility eligibility requirements, um, listed on that flier. Totally fine. If y'all don't, uh, meet those requirements. Um, if you know anybody that might, um, it'd be awesome if you could share this with them. Um, the QR code is here, and. Yeah. Um, that's pretty much all I've got. There's also the link there, and y'all are free to take pictures. Even if you aren't interested in participating, you can share it with others. That would be amazing. Um, and my contact info was also there in case you have any questions. But thank you all so much. Thank you. The research is amazing, so please support this if, uh, if you meet the eligibility requirements. Um, because it's really hard to get participants for these studies. So, uh, don't treat this as like a, like a thing that is not going to be worth it. It's going to be worth it for, uh, for geo and also for the research. Okay. And then we will be talking about. Refactoring today. Let me just pull this up here. Um, by the way, this graphic, uh, was an idea that, uh, I think it was notebook. Um, um, had, um, as a metaphor for refactoring. And you just love this metaphor so much, and then I'm going to use it every single time I'm going to talk about refactoring. Um, so in refactoring, what we're going to do is we're going to juggle with our classes while objects or components, and we're going to juggle with a lot of stuff. Um, uh, on a very thin thread. But we are doing this above a safety net of comprehensive tests. Isn't this an amazing metaphor? Um, I hope you'll you'll appreciate the, uh, the metaphor at the end of this class. Um, so, yeah, we've covered a lot of design patterns. And, uh, today we are going to, uh, talk about how you get from the kind of design that you may have had, um, before this class to the kind of design, um, that you're going to see in this class. Um, so what is refactoring? What a code smells. We literally call those code smells. So code smells are, uh, that is not code that hasn't showered for a while, but that is code, uh, that hasn't been refactored for a while. Um, and then we're going to look at common refactoring types and program transformations. Um, and this is mostly based on this book by Martin Fowler. Um, refactoring, improving the design of existing code. And this book has really been a very, uh, has had a very impactful, um, uh, effect on the software engineering community because before this book, people just wrote the books on, like, the Gang of Four. So they've looked at the design pattern code, and they looked at the code and was like, wow, this code is so clean. This is so beautiful. This design is so great. This doesn't even look like the code that I write myself. And then they've looked at this book where this book always has, uh, two sides to the page. One page. The before code. This is where people recognized themselves. They were like, this is the code I write. I know this code. And then the after page is then the clean code that they've seen in the other books. Uh, so this is the first book that intentionally put ugly code in the book. And people were like, oh, yes. Oh, this this is how this is where I recognize myself. So now I know how to get from there to what we've seen. And, um, um, the previous lectures. Um, refactoring is a semantics preserving program transformation. What does this mean? This means that it's a change to the code that preserves the behavior and it changes the structure. So semantics is all of the behaviors that a program can have. Um, and um, um, we want our refactorings to. Still keep the exact same output input behavior off the system. We wanted to improve the structure and the cleanness of the code. We want to make the internal structure and internal behavior easier to understand and cheaper to modify without changing the observable behavior. The second part is what a lot of people misunderstand. Uh, you see a lot of git commit messages when people make large changes and they are too tired to describe what they've actually done. They just say refactoring. Um, don't do this. Don't do this. Uh, a refactoring does not change the observable behavior. Uh, and this is really important because when you think about the refactoring you're doing, you want to separate all of the changes that do not change the observable behavior from the changes that intentionally, uh, affect observable behavior because you have a comprehensive suite of tests. And when you are done with your refactoring, all of the tests that passed before your refactoring should still pass after you're factoring. Right. Uh, because you've not changed the observable output behavior. So if you separate all of the changes to the internal structure and internal behavior from the changes, it actually should change the output, then it's going to be much easier for you to identify whether your test should pass, or whether it doesn't really matter whether your tests pass. And the reason why we look at this right after Design patterns is that design patterns in general encapsulate some abstract design, some reusable experience of design that is sometimes a bit harder to see at the time when you write your individual, um, classes and objects. So it's going to be harder for you to see this, right, while you're coding. But at some point later, you're going to see that there are some abstraction that makes your code much cleaner, where you can then see, oh, now that I had to add all of these classes, now I see that I actually should have implemented a strategy design pattern from the beginning. But, um, you didn't see it in the beginning. So now you're going to learn the steps to get there, uh, in time. So you have a current version, you have some anticipated changes that you didn't really anticipate. Um, when you are implementing this current version, because we live in a world in which, um, um, our requirements are changing, our customers inform us about new potential changes that they might have in the future after we've implemented our current version. Um, and when we see that there are maybe some anticipated changes in the future, then we often refactor our current version to an improved version that has a cleaner design or uses design patterns. That is then much easier to, uh, um, change into our anticipated versions. And we want to we want to do these refactorings as early as possible, because the earlier we do the refactoring, the more it pays off. This is a really important insight. Um, code is read much, much more often than it is written. Right. So you as a program, um, as the software engineer, what do you think? Give me an estimate. What percentage of the total, um, 40 hour work week you spend? Do you spend on program comprehension, reading or trying to understand code? What percentage might this be? Yes. 50 to 60. Why is it so high? Aren't you paid for writing code or. Or designing code or talking to. Isn't this what you're paid for? To do? To code? Exactly. It's the studies. I've seen a 58%. So exactly in the middle of your spectrum. Uh. I should. I should get you some some some other kind of candy. Maybe some chocolate or some some some fruits or whatever. Um. But, um. Yeah. So sometimes our code degenerates. We often call this the second law of, uh, software evolution, which says, uh, basically the same thing as the second law of thermodynamics. But just for code, that code degenerates if we don't actively add, um, clarity in our code while refactoring. So if we haven't perfected our code for a while, it will degenerate. Refactoring is the process that reduces the entropy in our code, and the reason other sections are sometimes easier to see off of. The code has been written, um, and code was written by different people who maybe didn't really see the abstractions because they have not looked at all of the code at the same time. So, uh, this is why Martin Fowler started to document a set of code smells. These are reasons to refactor your code. And studying these code smells then makes you. I recognize them in the code that you've written, or in the code that your colleagues have written, or your teammates, or the people who have been working at the company before you. Um, and, uh, the nice thing about using this vocabulary vocabulary is that, uh, because it has been documented in many, many books everywhere over the internet, all of the, you know, AI coding agents that you will use by the time you get your first job. They know this vocabulary, so you can tell them this is a divergent change. This is a shotgun surgery. And then they will know what to do. You recognize them and then you tell your coding agent, I recognize this code. Now please refactor this with the following refactoring. So this lecture is more about the vocabulary and the concepts behind the code smells and the refactorings than about the actual specific code transformations. Because, you know, automated tools can do this. And I you know, I mean, I could have done this over a decade. This was one of the first things that I could do. Uh, so the actual change, this is trivial. You don't really need to do this. Uh, but, um, it helps understanding this. Okay. Think about the code that you've looked at. Could you describe some code smells that you might have seen in your code or code of other people? Talk to your neighbor. Okay. Any ideas? Give it a name or describe it in any way you feel like. Describes the smell. Yes. She this. Unnecessary repetition. We call this code duplication. Uh, right. Whenever we implement the same thing in multiple places, we want to create an abstraction that is then just putting it in single place. Okay. And the other code smells different content. Yes. Want me? Uh, a change. Ripple effect? Yes. We call this the shotgun surgery. We get to, we get to all of the different names later. But, uh, any other? Yes. I'm still. What does Dale mean? Okay. So it's kind of like, are you saying it's dead code? Dead code? Yeah. Dead code is a good example. Okay. Uh, dead code is a good example. Uh, actually, maybe on Thursday in the testing lecture, I'm going to show you an example of dead code that, uh, caused the most expensive software failure in human history. Uh, a company lost $444 million in 28 minutes just because of dead code. Um, that then became a life again. Uh, any other kind of code smell that you have encountered besides code duplication, besides shotgun surgery and besides, uh, uh, dead code. No, that is okay. Then let me give you a list. So we have duplicate code. We have really, really long methods, right? When our methods are so long that they don't even fit on a screen. Like, who can make sense of them? That makes no sense. So we want to. We want to create small chunks that people can understand in isolation. Um, and we want to give them a meaningful names so that we can understand what they do without having to actually go and look into every single statement. Large class is the same thing. Long parameter lists. If you have methods that take like 20 arguments, that's going to be so hard to call and diverge and change. In short search we are a bit more complicated. We'll look at them later. There's also feature in the data crumbs primitive obsession switch statements. Whenever you see really long switch statements in code. That doesn't necessarily have to be the fastest code on earth. You want to get rid of them because they are quite hard to understand by people. Parallel inheritance hierarchies and lazy class. A lot of different code smells and we look at some of them in this lecture. Speculative generalization. If you've created a superclass where there is no need for already a temporary field of message chains, there's so many, we can't even cover all of them in a full lecture. Uh, but yeah, they're in the book. So you can you can read the book for, um, the other ones and. Oh, that book is probably older than most of you, right? Um. Uh, yeah. This is a catalog of common refactorings and object oriented programs. I think most of the code examples are in Java. Which is why, you know, we'd use Java because a lot of these ideas come from Java. Um, but I've created a, uh, tutorial for you that goes through these, uh, refactorings in Python. So if you're more familiar with Python, uh, then maybe going through the tutorial I built over the weekend, um, will be maybe more useful for you than the Java code, because it seems like more people here like Python than Java. Um, yeah, they're not formally defined, but they can be automated by your ID, so most Ides can actually implement these refactorings for you automatically, some maybe a little bit better than others. And of course I can do it as well. Um. And, uh, let's look at the virgin change. So the Virgin changes the cloth. That is commonly changed in many different ways for different reasons. So if we have a class that does not follow the separation of concerns design principle, it has a lot of different responsibilities. There are a lot of different people that want this class to change. This is a code smell because this means our cognitive power that we need to understand. This class means we have to understand all of these different concerns. And there are so many reasons for this class to change to this. This is probably going to have like the longest good blame history of, uh, every class in your system. So if you have a change to, uh, methods, they are they happen every time together. And then you have other methods that also happen, uh, at the same time. Um, you don't really want this. You want you don't want them to change for different reasons. So this is why, uh, Roberts and Martin said you want to, um, put together what changes for the same reasons and, uh, spread apart or changes for different reasons. Um, and then the extract class refactoring is doing this because it's taking each of the different concerns of the class. So if there's a database concern, if there's a bookkeeping concerns, there's a UI concern. It takes all of these separate concerns out of this big class that has a diverging change, um, um, smell. And then we extract the class, uh, out of the base class, uh, and put these concerns into separate classes that then can evolve separately. Um. We have shotgun surgery. This is kind of like the opposite. So shotgun surgery is whenever you have to make a change. Uh, the specific change, you have to touch a million different classes. Right? So not multiple changes in one class, but, uh, one change that has to spread over many, many different classes. So this is the ripple effect. When you have to make a change, you have to touch this class in this class and this class and that module and that method. Uh, and those I think those are the, the worst ones, because you will probably miss the one of the places you need to change if you have to change five different classes to make, uh, a common change. You will miss the first class. You will just change four classes. Uh, and we've seen this kind of code smell in robotic systems. Um, and, um, um, uh, as part of my PhD thesis, I documented all of the bugs that had this kind of, um, uh, structure. And, um, there are so many, you know, in robotic systems, and you would think that robotic systems are the ones that are, you know, designed for safety, but they still have this, uh, shotgun surgery, uh, quotes Melissa then, uh, resulting in a lot of bugs. So these ones are, are very, very likely to result in bugs. Um, they also have the funniest name, right? Like, have you ever been in a meeting where somebody says, oh, I feel like that code has a shotgun surgery code smell? Um, now you can be in the meeting because you can be the one who says this. Um. Okay. Feature envy. You have a class that is much, much more interested in the methods or attributes of another class. It's so envious of this class that it's just calling all of the methods. Uh, and you want to, uh, avoid this because this results in very strong coupling. So you have two classes or multiple classes that are very, very strongly coupled. You want to avoid this. So the way how you avoid this coupling is then by a moving methods by, um, maybe extracting a third class out of this. So there are a few different methods. What you can do with this. Then our data comes. Data comes as a bunch of data and primitive data structures that hang around together. Uh, that should actually just be their own object or class. Right. So you have, um. Um, a lot of fields that often come together, let's say first name, last name and email address. Right. If you have these primitive data types, uh, hanging around together, where maybe you just want to extract a, uh, user class or a employee class or whatever. Um, so extract class or introduce parameter objects. We look at all of these together. Oh, this looks so ugly on this big screen. I shouldn't really move this to art UML. Um, um, but, um, anyways, I think I tried doing this of some, and then I realized that, uh, PowerPoint somehow doesn't render SVGs correctly, which is crazy, right? This is in PowerPoint, like one of the main products of Microsoft and Microsoft. Isn't this like one of the biggest companies in the world and they don't render SVGs? Well that's crazy. This world we live in. Shouldn't they just. Shouldn't they just ask their copilot to fix this for them anyways? Um, yeah. So this is why you have to suffer through pixelated graphics from slides made, um, in the past. Um, so if you have customers that, um, have a start date and an end date and a lot of different methods, they always have start date and, and date for, uh, amount invoice and amount received, uh, amount overdue. So you have starting every single time you have these methods, you have starting an end date parameter. Well you can just create an object date range. Um, and now this is much easier to understand because now you know, this is a date range object and you can actually reuse the object. Or you could even implement some methods on this object on converting, let's say different time zones. Right. Um, this might actually be quite cool because if you have start date and end date, let's say in different time zones, if a meeting starts in one timezone and then ends in another, that is quite, uh, confusing to implement. But if you have a date range and you can create it with a start and end date of different time zones, this might actually be much easier to implement. Um, yeah. So whenever you see, um, this data comes in parameter, uh, in parameters, then you want to think about the introduced parameter object refactoring. So this is the name for the refactoring that starts from the code smell of data clumps and then introduces uh parameter objects. This is why it's called introduce parameter object. Um I think mutton follow wasn't as creative of the names of his refactorings as he was of his code smell names. Um. But Primitive obsession is a record type. Um. Uh, has a lot of different kind of primitive data types that you don't actually want to have. So let's say you have an order where the customer is a string. The customer should not be a string, because the customer is more than just like the name or the ID. Um, so instead of having your order, I have an attribute called customer. That's a string. We call this primitive obsession. It should actually be replaced by what we call a value object. Um, a value object. Um, that mostly just kind of carries values, but then you can later actually introduce some methods on those as well. So the nice thing about object oriented design is that you often start with grouping together data, and then you realize, oh, you want to, uh, perform operations on those, and then you put them inside of this class. Um, so instead of starting with your order customer string, or you see this and you're like, wait a second, wait a second. It doesn't really make sense to model the customer just as a string. So then we introduce a class that, um, then avoids us having to guess what this string stands for. So the issue with primitive obsession is that it's often hard for people to guess what this actually should be. Should this be the customer ID? Should this be the customer first name? Last name? Should it be first name? Space? Last name or last name? Comma. Space? First name. Like, you don't really know. Um, by introducing this class, you can then introduce, uh, actual getter and setter methods that make sense. And then it's easier for people to understand what this code does. So the whole goal behind refactoring is to reduce the cognitive load that people would need to understand what's going on, because this has become the limiting factor in software engineering. The, um, execution speed of our computers, the memory, they're not necessarily the main limiting factors are the limiting factors in some specific domains. But in most domains, the cognitive capabilities of humans have become the limiting factor in what kind of systems we can design. So this is why we want to carefully think about how we can reduce the complexity needed to understand and make changes. Um, and refactoring does this. Um, then we have replaced type code with class. So a class that has numeric types. Uh, let's say, um, you have a blood group where, um o a b and a b a different integers. You want to replace those with a class. So instead of having a blood group this is an integer. You want to replace this with a blood group class that then encapsulates these different kinds of blood groups. Uh, and who remembers what an underlined attribute means, an UML. What does underline mean? It's a static entity. Yes. That's what we're going to say, right? Uh, yeah. It's a static attribute. So this is this exists on the class, not on the instance. So this is what you would this is kind of like a singleton, right. But a quadruple button. So you have four different instances of this black. You have uh 0AB and AB. Uh, if you have parallel inheritance hierarchies, that's kind of a special case of shotgun surgery where you have, um, two inheritance hierarchies that basically whenever you have to add 1 to 1, then you also have to add it to the other. Um, then you want to, uh, move fields, you want to remove methods. It's sometimes not possible. So this one, this one is often, um, not actually, uh, changeable. So, uh, that's been a really interesting paper. There was, uh, written in 1972, I believe. Uh, it was called in Degrees of Separation of Concerns that specifically talked about, um, the kinds of decompositions that you cannot get away with, that you cannot get around. Because with all of the programing language constructs that we use nowadays, we have to choose, um, what the authors called a, um, the tyranny of the dominant decomposition. So you have to pick one way to decompose your system. Uh, and uh, you cannot separate all of the different concerns from each other, uh, unless you use hyper slices, which for good reason, nobody uses. Um, um, so sometimes you see parallel inheritance hierarchies, and you can move methods and move fields around so that you don't have to duplicate the, uh, inheritance hierarchies. But there might be some cases in which it's actually impossible to do this because you have inherently cross-cutting concerns and you do not want to use, uh, hyper slices or, uh, aspect on which sort of aspect oriented programing. I think one student should raise his hand. Um. But, um. Yeah. So as we go into programing this is a programing language paradigm that can deal with this. But. Not really used in practice. A lazy class is a class you create. Um, but you don't really use it a lot. Um, when you think about all kinds of modules you create, uh, they all should do something for your, uh, project goal. If you create something and it does not actually have a good reason to exist, it takes up your cognitive space. This is maybe kind of like this is close to dead code, right? This is not actually dead code, but it's, uh, it's almost dead code. It's a it's a class that just takes up your cognitive power without, uh, paying off. Uh, yeah. You sometimes just want to inline the classes. Inline classes? The, uh, opposite of extract class. So an extract class, you have a class that does a lot of things, and then you pull out a smaller class, um, an inline class, you do the opposite. You take a really, really small piece of code and you inject it into another class. Inline class, opposite of extract class. Or you want to collapse the hierarchy. So if you have an employee and a salesman, well, what's the difference between a sales salesman and an employee for a company where most of the employees are salesmen? It's not big of a difference. So maybe you can just collapse them and then you can just call them employees. And then all of your employees are salesmen. Um. Yes. If they're not very different, you can also just merge them together. But, uh, this is a this is a refactoring you really only want to do if you're sure that this will also continue to be the case in the future. So all of these refactorings you want to think of as, um, anticipating the realistic set of anticipated future changes. And if there's a small set of uh, uh, expected changes, then merging them together reduces the cognitive load on the next person who looks at the code. Um, if there are a lot of changes requested in the future that would separate them if they have divergent, uh, evolution paths, then you want to keep them separate. So you want to think about whether they evolve for the same reason. Uh, well, if they evolve for separate reasons. So if you believe that in the future, the salesman will play a very, very different role from the employee, from the pure employee, then you would not want to do these refactorings. Um, so these are things often go both ways, right? Uh, because depending on your specific situation you want to use, uh, you're going to want to go one direction. And then maybe for a different reason, you would go the other direction. Uh, so design patterns are generally kind of like a good idea. So they are usually kind of mostly one way. Uh, we want to go towards the design pattern. These refactorings, they generally go both ways. Uh, depending on where you anticipate your change to be. So you're basically seeing the exact same diagram of the error the opposite way. Uh, for the for the abstract class, um, where there would be a divergent change between employee and salesman. Yeah. Inline class. Uh, looks like this. So you you have two classes, and then you just make one of them. You just combine them together, right? You you move the features from one class to another, and then you have a combined class. That should be pretty easy, by the way. Any questions so far? I hope this is all super easy, but if it's not, please raise your hand. Okay. Got super easy. You should make this more difficult. Maybe we should make more challenging topics into the class. Um. Speculative generality. Um, speculative generality is when you anticipate changes that will never actually become true. Um, if you're like, oh, I this, this, this is what many students, when they've completed a class like this and they have learned all of the design patterns, they've learned all the information hiding. They have learned you have to plan for the future. Uh, you have to anticipate change. And then they think about changes that won't come for 100 years. Um, and then they create designs that are overly flexible. Um, um. I just forgot his name. But the author of the book The Mythical Men Month, who won the Twink Award for the book, he calls this the second System Effect. The second system effect is after you've designed a bad system, then you try to design a good system and you overshoot the goal. You generalize too quickly. You think about the most flexible design that's so flexible that nobody in their right mind can actually understand what's going on. Uh, we call this speculative generality. And you think you have the there are some you need some ability in the future, but you will never actually need it. And then you create, uh, a very complex inheritance hierarchy, um, with a lot of polymorphism. And nobody really knows what kind of calls are actually happening. So you want to avoid this? You want to, um, only plan for the inheritance that you actually need. You want to think about the abstractions that you will you will actually need. Inappropriate intimacy is when a class becomes too intimate and spend too much time in the private data of another class. This is basically you have too much coupling between your classes. Uh, they have, uh, they have not hidden design decisions from each other. Um, and uh, again, this can this can go both ways. So sometimes you want them to, uh, you know, be merged into one class. Sometimes you want to extract a third class. A one creates more complexity. One reduces complexity depending on what you, uh, what you believe makes the most sense in your, um, uh, in your specific situation. So, uh, sometimes extract class just, you know, extracts the common concern, sometimes merging them together because they are actually they should be one class, uh, makes the most sense. Well, maybe you actually want to hide this design decision you want to make. The, uh, methods and data that, uh. Yeah, the object depends on, uh, not accessible. Uh, and then, um, redesign your second class so that the second class is then, um, uh, designed in a way that it doesn't make any of these assumptions, which would be a cleaner design, but it's not always possible. So yeah. For example, here you have a client class that, uh, talks to a person and a department. So it knows about both of these, uh, and it, um, it basically wants to get to the manager. Um, but a first has to get to the department to then get the department and then call as the manager there. Um, a way how you can hide the department from the client class is by introducing a get manager, uh, method on the person that then basically, uh, replaces by the department. But the client class doesn't even know the department exists. So reduce dependency on the department by introducing, uh, a new method. Uh, get manager on the person. Um, so we've effected it in a way that now, um, the person is, uh, hiding the design decision, and then you have some department wire while increasing its own interface. So you have some trade offs here. You have a larger interface for the person, but you have hidden in the department from a client. Okay, this one is maybe a little bit more challenging to to comprehend. So let's spend a little bit more time on this. Um. When you're taking algorithm classes, you, um, start to develop a way of thinking. Um, that is, uh, in loops and conditions. Um, and then you often start writing code that looks like this. Like, this is the first thing you learn in 31, like, loops and conditions. Um, so from the very beginning, you train your brain to think, and, uh, this has to happen, and then that has to happen. And then there's a condition. Uh, and when this condition happens, we go here and we go there. Um, this is a very procedural way of thinking, but object oriented languages give us a different way to structure our program that does not rely on these explicit conditions that, um, uh, separating concerns more effectively. If you structure your way in a purely procedural way, where you have conditions, where you then have the if and the else branch literally right next to each other, you have coupled the behavior of the if branch with the else they are in the same module and the same place. If they change for different reasons, um, then they should not be in the same place. If you have this condition in many, many different the exact same condition in many, many different places. And then the concerns and they have branches, they all coupled with each other the behaviors of the else branches, they all are the same concern. Then you've spread this across a lot of different if conditions that are always replicated across the code. So if conditions often result in a lot of code duplication, if the, uh, behavior that depends on this condition is replicated many, many times, this is what what design pattern can help us with this? Who remembers a design pattern that allows for behavior variation? But also behavior variation. Yes. Exactly. This strategy. Very good. Okay. So, um, the strategy, um, and. And that's another design pattern of the dozens, even more, which is the state design pattern. The state design pattern does this even more. Um, you might want to read the set design pattern description in the book. Um, it's basically like whenever you have a condition on am I in this state? Am I in that state? Am I in this state? Am I in that state? Uh, you have these conditions all over the class, and you just replace this with a with an object that has, uh, uh, delegates all of its state dependent behavior on something like a, uh, uh, a strategy on, uh, polymorphism. So we when we develop real world systems in object oriented languages, we often prefer polymorphism over conditions because polymorphism is more extensible. We just create a new object that is, um, a new class that is implementing the same interface, um, and makes all of these decisions. And then we don't have to add any additional, let's say, cases and switch statements if we have a lot of switch statements. Um, uh, we often want to replace those with polymorphism. So the, um, this is why replace conditional with polymorphism as one of the most important refactorings in object oriented programing. So you have a conditional that chooses between different behaviors. And you have this kind of replicated in many, many different places. And you often want to remove this and create a, uh, inheritance hierarchy instead. So let's say you have this Python class where you have, uh, a bird class, and then you have a switch statement where you have is European, is African, is in a region blue. So you have different kinds of birds. And then um, the speed is calculated in a, in a different way. How could we replace this with polymorphism. Talk to your neighbor. Okay. Any ideas? Who has an idea. Today, everyone is really tired. Yes. That's right. Yeah. So we have a bird super class where it gets speed as an abstract method, and then Norwegian bird or African bird or Norwegian blue bird. They're all subclasses. And then the advantage of this is that if we had other methods where we have exactly the same kind of switch statement, then we have not duplicated this anyway, and we have added new types of birds much easier. Now we have to look for every single switch statement that looks for this kind of enum, right? That's kind of a pain. Um. So, yeah. Instead, we have a bird. Um, and I maybe should update this to use the actual Python annotation for abstract base class, uh, and abstract method. Um, this kind of looks like. I hope you've seen this before. Right? Um, and then you say, um, this inherits from ABC. Uh, and then you make this a. Abstract method. We've seen this before. Okay. Some some, some. Not all. Um. Oh yeah. If not, actually, that's when I edit code and you don't actually see it. Yes. Okay. Now you can see it. Uh, yeah. So this is the much cleaner implementation because, uh, now you have made it more extensible. Uh, but again, you only want to make this change if you actually expect more birds to be added to your system. If you don't believe that more birds will be added, then this would be just a waste of time. And there are different kinds of levels of refactoring. So we call those data level refactoring, statement level refactoring, routine level refactoring, class implementation, refactoring, class interface refactoring, and then system level refactoring. So they they get from low level to high level. And um, like nobody in their right mind does these manually themselves anymore. Right? Nobody does those manually anymore. But system level refactoring is I think many of those are still, uh, still done manually by people. And you at least want to when you're thinking about these refactorings, you at least want to think about what your end state should look like. Um, maybe when we depending on when we finish, I can show you, um, uh, how I implemented this in our, uh, refactoring tutorial. So you kind of see the level of abstraction that people would engage, uh, with refactoring nowadays. Um, yeah. So in general, you want to be very safe. You want to make sure that your code, uh, is tested. You want to keep your refactoring so small that you want to, um, that you fully understand what is actually happening. Um, um, this is a nice quote from Tony Hoare, um, who unfortunately passed away last quarter, uh, right after my first Tony, uh, my whole logic lecture. And I was like, did you listen to my lecture? And then then that was the reason why he I hope not. Um, but, uh, Tony Hall made this, uh, really nice quote, um, um, where he said there are two ways how you can write programs. Uh, one way is so that it obviously doesn't contain bugs. The other one is that it doesn't contain any obvious bugs. Uh, and you want to you want to use the first one, right? Do you want to write code that is, uh, so clear, uh, that is so clear that, um, the person looks at it in us like, oh, this obviously doesn't contain bugs. And the same thing should be true for your refactorings. Um, uh, the, um. Refactorings should be so small that you know for sure that each of them is not introducing a change. And this is why I think it's important to think of refactoring as a semantics, preserving as semantics preserving changes that do not alter the behavior. Because once you mix refactorings of behavioral changes, then it's hard for you to actually know that they are safe. So you want to do them one at a time, and you want to make sure that they actually just capture the true essence of, uh, the structural or inner behavioral change. Um, and, uh, yeah, you want to make a list of steps, I guess. Um, yeah. Kind of like a parking lot. These are the changes needed. Um, and, um, yeah, nowadays you can basically just hand your parking lot to your eye coding agent and then say, these are the refactorings I want to take. Uh, and then it will perform all of these for you, uh, automatically, because it knows exactly how to do them. And there's not a lot of cognitive power involved. And, um, and making these changes from a, you know, coding perspective, um, but you want to make sure, uh, especially if you're doing your refactorings with the help of, uh, some AI that you have a very comprehensive test suite, um, uh, who has written tests before. I hope all of your hands are wonderful. Okay. I was I was not sure, uh, because I think, uh, none of the classes you've taken so far has taught you how to write tests. Right. Um, okay. That's good. We can we can skip some parts in this lecture. That's good. Okay. Yeah. So you want to keep this very comprehensive suite of tests? Uh, you want to make frequent checkpoints, you want to use the compiler warnings, uh, retest and then potentially add test cases. There are some refactorings that break your tests because if you have a larger level refactoring. So when you look at this hierarchy of changes, a class interface refactoring will always break the tests. Uh, then on the unit test level, um, so um, in that case that's an expected, that's, that's an expected, um, test failure. But all of the others, they should not break any tests. Uh, so you want to be aware of what kind of refactoring you're making and whether a change, uh, in the implementation then also expects a change in, uh, tests, uh, and then make them at the same time. You want to. Yeah. It just your approach depending on the risk level. So let's say you're working at a large financial company. Um, that is, uh, the backbone of the entire payment system, uh, of the world. Uh, then you want to make sure that your refactorings are not going to break the, uh, entire, uh, payment system of the world. Or if you are working at a, uh, at a large security company, uh, and your systems are deployed at all systems around the world, and you push a change on a Friday evening. Uh, you do not want to, uh, break the entire world economy as, uh, uh, CrowdStrike has done. Uh, I don't think that the bug was caused by a refactoring, because, I don't know, uh, it doesn't really seem like, uh, they are. Anyways, um, yeah. So recap. So you have bad code smells that indicate symptoms of poor design, and then, uh, you have your catalog of a code transformations that, uh, address these individual code smells. And it's very important for you to apply this refactoring safely. Um, because you don't want to invest time into making a design cleaner and then realize that you've actually completely broken everything. Okay, now let's go through a few questions on the information hiring principle as a recap. Um. Are these statements true or false? Okay, I'm going to give you two minutes for this. Oh. Just. Okay. Okay, let's let's go through them one by one. Uh, modularization can improve software's ease of change. Who thinks this is true? Raise your hand. Okay. Who thinks this is false? Also, nobody's going to like get a B in this class, right? Like everybody just gets an A. That's true. Yes. Um. Uh, interfaces between modules are not allowed to reveal any volatile information. Is this true or false? True. Fault. Okay. We have a debate. Uh, who who think, uh. You said it's false. Why do you think it's false? And the reason? Um. Yeah. Um. I think the. Yeah. So the I guess you're, you're onto something in the sense that the, uh, if you can't implement your feature in a way where it does not expose this, um, uh, well, it doesn't allow for future changes. If you don't expose us, uh, then you have to make it, uh, part of the interface. Um, uh, so maybe we should change this from, um, not allowed to to should not. Um, because, um. Yeah, that's not going to be, uh, the police is not going to, uh, put you in prison if you, if you violate this, uh, information hiding, uh, rule. Uh, uh, the information hiding police is not going to knock on your door. Um, information recommend separating a computer program into distinct sections such that each section addresses a separate concern. Who thinks this is true? Who thinks this is false. Oh, we're going to have a debate. Why do you think it's false? Let me bring you some candy. Other ecosystems. Kind of splitting up the. That would be like a design make strategy. For the information I was not giving away from the. That's right. So they're actually two separate design principles. So the information hiding principle, uh, is that you should, um, design your modules to, uh, hide design decisions that are likely to change from the others. This is the exact phrasing of another design principle. How is this maybe called? Yes. Ask. Isn't it still implied to be a great question. How is the cult? Yes, exactly. Separation of concerns is, uh, separation of concerns implied by information hiding. And now we're getting deep into the theory. Um, so the separation of concerns principle. Um, just says that you should, um, separate sections in your code that implement different concerns. It does not make a claim about you having to hide those. Um, so in this way, information hiding is stronger than separation of concerns. But separation of concerns is more general in the in the sense that it talks about all kinds of concerns. They should be separated from each other. It doesn't necessarily say that they have to, um, be design decisions that are likely to change. Um, so in this case, they are very strongly correlated with each other. Um, but there's no direct implication from one to the other. Um, information hiding doesn't always imply separation of concerns. And separation of concerns doesn't always imply information hiding. Um, they are very, very strongly coupled. Um, but they are still, uh, slightly different, uh, concepts. Um, but this is more of, like, academic difference than a practical difference. Um. Oh, yes. But isn't as you are. Like you were actually already doing some real consulting. You're doing one kind of separation of concerns. Um, but you're not necessarily. Um, so if you if you think of these principles as a way to evaluate the quality of a design, um, then a design that scores very, very high on information hiding might not necessarily score very high on separation of concerns, because there might be some concerns that are not design decisions that are likely to hide a change that are not, um, um, separated from each other. Um, so pure separation of concerns is, in almost all cases, impossible, um, because you generally always have concerns that are, that are cross-cutting. Um, um, there are good examples of concerns that are often cross-cutting, like security, for example, you want to, um, have some security in every single module. It's really hard to create a single security module. Um, but that doesn't necessarily mean that security is a design decision that's likely to change. Right? Um, once you say your system should be secure, uh, that decision is not going to change. Um, right. So, um, there are concerns that are not likely to change that should still be separated according to the separation of concerns principle. It's the other way around. Um, because. Because you haven't necessarily hidden them. So if you've just separated them, that doesn't necessarily mean that you have hidden them. Um. Okay. Other questions. Okay, then. Um. Information hiding recommends using getters and setters in Java. Uh, true or false? Who says true? Who says false. Okay. We'll probably split because maybe the. Freezing is a little bit vague. Uh, who says yes? It does recommend using it. Yes. About what? Yes. Uh. Innovation and. Complexity behind interfaces. Uh, some sense that the method is like an interface in some. But, um, by using getters and setters with. It's not hidden anything. We've just given a method. We've made our attribute private, but we've still exposed the getters and setters. We still have given everybody the, um, information that this attribute exists and the ability to get and set it. Uh, if it would be, let's say, just get us without setters, then you could make the argument that you, you may have reduced the interface, uh, but you've still not really hidden details. Um, you've exposed that the attribute exists and you have exposed its data type. Um, so from an information hiding perspective, uh, using getters and setters has literally no, no impact on the design. Uh, the only uh, impact would be if they get us and set us. I have much, much more general data types, or there's only a get to know setter and it is more, more general. But in general, there's no, um, no more information hiding with getters and setters. Yes. Um, my understanding was if you could, uh, use getters and setters, but like, I. Like first. That's right. So there are very specific cases in which using getters and setters in the right way, uh, is hiding information. Um, but, uh, if you blindly just replace your public attribute with getters and setters, you have followed another design principle of, you know, not making your attributes public, but you've not followed information hiding. So you can use getters and setters specifically to hide specific information. But in general, just using getters and setters is not going to help. Um, so it's a, um, it's sometimes it uses information hiding if done the right way, but not always. Okay? Yes. So we'll work like. Because you're not grumbles about it. You're gonna have. That might not even be a. In the field all at the time when you're calling the getter. Okay. Um, okay. Uh, so we're going to we're going to try to phrase the questions in a way where you have to take the phrasing literally. Um, so in an exam, I would say, uh, the information hiding principle says that using getters and setters always or usually or something like this. Right. Then I would add an exam question. I would try to add these kind of quantifiers that, uh, make it clear whether this is an exhaustive all quantifier or an exist or in most cases, quantifier. Um, um, I think that maybe an advantage of having a German on the team, we Germans love to we love to be precise in our phrasing. Um. But, um, that may be an advantage or disadvantage, because that might mean that maybe an exam question may be a little bit more, um, nitpicky, um, than it might be otherwise. But you you're not. Yeah. You should you should take those literally. The ones your exams are taking with me. You should take them, like, literally. Um, okay. But, um, last one, by following the information hiring principle, you can reduce the number of inter module dependencies, the dependencies between modules in your program. Is this true or false? Who thinks it's true? Who things at once. Oh, we are split. We're split. I'm curious. What are you. What are your thoughts? Just like we're. Using light. We're I is the information directly because we're hiding the presentation details. I need to create like more classes and that will be more. I would say that that's not usually the case. Uh, I would say, uh, usually when you use information hiring the right way, you have a question or. Okay. Uh, usually, uh, in applying information, hiding actually does reduce your dependencies between modules because you have hidden these design decisions, right? You've hidden the design decisions that often introduce this kind of coupling. But you have a question or answer. Exactly right. So the mediator design pattern is a good example, right. We've hidden all of the, uh, collaborations between objects and we've reduced the entire module. That's a great example. I love this example. And you wanted to say something earlier. Yeah. Because I was a little bit confused because. Because I thought he would hide information, but they wouldn't. Right. So information hiding just these two things, right? It's not just about reducing the interface. It's also about structuring your modules in a way that, uh, each of them is hiding a decision. And by structuring the modules this way, you often lead to, uh, you often end up in, uh, uh, in a design that has less coupling because, uh, they need to make less assumptions about each other. Um, so this is, this is what a lot of people in industry get wrong about information hiding. They think of it just as they reduce the interface. Uh, but it's it's primarily about structuring your modules in a way that is, um, uh, reducing dependencies between them. Uh, it's not about the interface between the modules as much as it is about, uh, structuring the modules. So it's a, it's a module decomposition approach more than it is a interface definition approach. And yeah. So here it says you can reduce. So if you can think of a single example where this happens, then the answer would be yes. And if we thought of the uh mediator design pattern. So this is why the answer is yes. Um, but in general it's not just the mediator. It's it's many, many cases. So here, here I went for an exam. I would not use this phrasing because everybody can probably think of a single case. Uh, but um, I would say in most cases, and I'm pretty sure that I could make the argument, um, that it has to be most cases because it's a modular decomposition approach like this. Okay. Questions about this. So yeah, these are the kind of questions you might you might see in an exam maybe, maybe phrased slightly differently. Um. Um. I usually and I'm probably going to actually do this this quarter. I love to have, uh, questions where students actually need to explain things. This is going to be tough on the graders, and it's going to be, uh, tough on your on your writing hand. Um, uh, I believe that software engineering is something you can actually just check with, like, multiple choice questions. Uh, so I'm you might, I think. Oh, have we published our. Somebody asked for a practice midterm. Uh, I'm not sure if you already published this, but, uh, you're not. Okay, so we we have a very published it. Um, I think my style of questions is maybe slightly more free text, um, than the practice midterm that you've seen so far. So. So be prepared to phrase your your arguments into words rather than just checking a box. Um, um, there there's this trend that some professors are doing now mostly at, you know, the private schools where the, um, uh, faculty to student ratio is slightly different, uh, where they actually do oral exams, uh, where students are, uh, having like a 20 or 30 minute or 50 minute conversation, uh, with the instructor or the to and, uh, I would love to have that in 130. I believe that would be objectively the right way to test the understanding that students gain in 130 because, uh, in many cases, the answer will be it depends. And structuring a question where it depends is the right answer would then mean that you always check is depends even without reading the answers. Uh, because it always depends. Uh, and if it's depends is not the right answer, then what? What can you even ask? So this this is why maybe my style of questions might be slightly different from the from the practice midterm in that specific sense. But, um, the topics will still be the same in the the material will be asked just in a different way. So in a way in which you want to phrase your thoughts into actual logical arguments rather than just into, uh, short answers or into multiple choice answers. Uh, so be prepared for that. If you have not practiced this, uh, I recommend you to pick a study partner and practice this. Yes. Last month. Um. I guess first glance I thought it was referring. Mhm. Mhm. I thought that was a. Referring to. Oh, okay. Yeah. So since it's a bye following the information hiding principle. So this is kind of like saying the the mechanism of applying information hiding in your, uh, in your modularization can reduce. Um, um, but, yeah, this this is kind of why I love free text questions, because then it's less about checking that the student specifically understood, uh, the specific phrasing. But you can kind of let students give answers that show off what, what they are very familiar with. Um, but also. Since we have different levels of. That's right. That's all you have? That's right. Yeah. Yeah. So in an exam, if we say module dependency, we refer to all kinds of dependencies between modules. So those could be the the data dependencies. Those could be statistic knowledge didn't die. Okay. I'm just I'll just have that. Yes. Um, um. Yeah. But yeah, if we talk about dependencies in general, um. Um, then it could be any of the type of dependencies that we've studied in this class. Um. Okay. Yeah. So this. What? No, this is a mistake. This is true. Let me correct this. Let me correct this. I'm not sure how this mistake made it in here. This is true. Okay. Let's look at this Java code. Make all that apply. The code implements a strategy pattern. The design defines the outline of algorithms that let subclasses do some of the work. Uh, so. The outline of the algorithm basically means interface. Um, the design keeps control over the algorithm structure, meaning that, uh, all different variations of the algorithm follow a specific, you know, sequence. Um, the design puts all duplicate code into a superclass, and subclasses share the common code. Okay. Let's give you. Two minutes again for this 102 minute. Oh, wait, we forgot to take a break. Let's take a break first. Let's take a break first. I'm so sorry, um. That I always forget to take a break in this class. I don't know why this happens in this class. Somehow, I never remember to actually take a break. Um, because I it's. I don't know, because I have to go up and down, and I always feel like I'm going to workout. Um. Okay. Yeah. Let's take a five minute break, and then we'll give you two more minutes to to answer the question. Hey. I think we'll have a lot of free candy for everyone on Thursday. It's funny, we bought candy on Amazon and it's kind of like expiring and like a few months ago we were like, hey, can we get candy that doesn't expire in a few months because we only have like five more weeks of lectures before it expires. And they were like, we're going to refund it, but you can keep it. So we'll just have a lot of candy in the next five weeks. Um, for everyone, that's kind of cool. And then if you want more candy in the summer, just stop by my office. You'll get candy. Well, just until September 1st, we're going to have a lot of candy. This is funny. I have a quick question. Okay, sure. Awesome. Let me just turn off the mic. Okay. Um, I'm going to give you, like, 30 more seconds because I think, um, the time I ran out before, um. Awesome. Okay. Does this code implement the strategy design pattern? Wait. Who thinks it implements a strategy design pattern? Who thinks it does not implement the strategy design pattern? Oh, we have a debate. Uh, who wants to argue for their opinion? I guess the one who was. That is the strategy. Can you point out where we have the, um, strategy interface and, uh, it slot? Um, uh, needs. Oh. Interesting. Uh, so I would not say that this is, uh, this is a strategy because, uh, needs work is, um. This is maybe more about semantics. Uh, I would say that this is not really a, um, behavioral variation. This is more, um, this is more we just fill in a, um, we fill in a, um, also, uh, in a strategy, we have a client class that then, you know, stores this this strategy. We don't really have this and this example. Right. So we have the. Um, we don't really have delegation. And this specific code example. I think we just have the hierarchy. So we just have the inheritance. We don't have the actual delegation happening. Of course, at some point we would have somebody delegating, but we don't see this in the code here. But I. Just. So the the, uh. I see your point. I see your point that this this, you know, literally changes the algorithm to do the exact opposite of what, uh, the other one does. Um, so it has had a large impact, but the, the line of code is literally it one line. So the strategy design pattern, we usually don't consider if it's like a single line, um, with. Yeah, this is maybe more of, um, the question of intent than actual structure. So if you don't really have a lot of code that you want to factor out, you still wouldn't call it a strategy. And yeah, you don't have any delegation here. So for it to be a strategy, you would also need delegation in the code example. So if we show you a code example where there's no delegation, uh then it's not it's not strategy. So here we only see classes that are inheriting. So if we were to draw a UML diagram it would only be inheritance. There would be no association. Um, which is why. Um, yeah. So that's maybe the objective reason. Um, there is no delegation. And then the subject of reason, let's maybe more just kind of like the context of the strategy. Whenever you have just a single line, you would usually not call it a strategy design pattern. Strategy has more complexity in its, um, in its body. If it's just, um, inheriting a virtual method and then, uh, configuring, uh, an existing algorithm, we don't usually call it, uh, a strategy. Uh, also, the um, interface here is not an actual interface. This is an abstract class where there's a lot of code here. Right. So we're inheriting more code than we then we define. So that's another hint why it's not really a strategy. And a strategy would be the opposite way. The, uh, interface that the strategy is implementing is usually not coming with any behavior. Um, yeah. It's inheriting more than it's defining. So it's kind of like swapping what, what what a strategy should do. But, um. This design defines the outline of algorithms and let subclasses do some of the work. True with things, this is true. Okay. One, two. Who thinks this is false. Oh, now everybody fell asleep. Uh, so many people don't have opinions. Okay. People who didn't have opinions. What is what is confusing? What is preventing you from forming an opinion? Can you can you phrase your, uh, uh, thoughts into words that we can help you? Are you just tired and you just want to go home? That's also fine. I mean, it's like, I don't know. Somehow it feels later than it usually is. Around that time, I don't know why. Maybe it's because it's a week. 4 or 5, whatever. Uh, okay. So, uh, this does define an outline. So you basically have a high level algorithm defined here. And then the subclass is making some, some um, doing some work here. Um, so yeah, this is why the answer here is true. Um, the design keeps control over the algorithms or question. Yes. Where are the supplies? That's so. So the there are some work uh, here is basically they define need swap. Um, and that's like. Yeah, it's less than zero. So at some. Point somewhere. They actually, like, do some substantial work. They do some heavy lifting. Now, these are the team members who say they have contributed, but they have only written a single line. So they've done. At the end of the quarter, they will say they have done some work. But we will we will say. It's warm. Anywhere. Um. I am with you, that will then be very ambiguous. Um, so we wouldn't we wouldn't ask that kind of question on an exam. Um. There's nothing worse than. That's right. That is exactly right. They do some work, but not enough to be called a strategy. Uh, the design keeps a family of algorithms that make them interchangeable using composition. Who thinks this is true? Who thinks this is false. Still so many students are asleep. Yes, this is false because there's no competition. There's no delegation. There's no competition in any way, shape or form. Um, the design puts all duplicated code into a superclass, and subclasses share the common code. Is this true? Oh, I know some some students woke up. Yes yes, yes. Welcome back. Welcome back. Yes. You've been right. You've been right. You've been right. Okay. One two. Three four. Huh? Defines a family of algorithms and make them interchangeable using composition. Oh no. The third one keeps keeps control over the algorithm structure. Oh, did we skip this? Um, so the, uh, algorithm structure here is basically that the superclass is defining when need swap, uh, is taking place. And then the subclass is just filling in, um, this whole. So you basically have a Swiss cheese here. Uh, and then uh, your subclasses are, uh, filling in the holes in this Swiss cheese. So, um, defining the outline of the algorithm here means that you have this, like, triple loop. Uh, this is the outline of the algorithm that is defined by the superclass. Uh, they all basically do like bubble sort, right? Um, this this double soap bubble sort, I don't know, sometimes it's just. It defines a family of algorithms. Control. Right. You are always going to have some. You're always going to have some kind of structure in your. Uh, yeah. So the reason here is that, uh, the sort function as defining the, uh, way how what is happened. So, like, the subclass is not defining whether it's quicksort or merge sort. Right. Uh, that we agree on. I'm not talking about that. Yeah. Like I understand how the superclass sometimes. So general algorithm structure. I just want to. Ask about what these things are like. Keeps control with algorithms. Oh, this just means that we basically define the, um. Um. We define the majority of how the algorithm works in the superclass. Said the majority of how. This sorting is happening is defined in the superclass as it keeps control over the algorithm structure, in the sense that the subclass is not supposed to just say no, I'm going to do merge sort, or I'm going into quicksort, or I'm going to do some other. I have outlined the structure of the algorithm. We do this triple loop here. Uh, and then I've just given you a template method that you fill in. Um. How is that related to? The design keeps control over the algorithm structure. Well, like the structure is this strip. This is the triple look. This is structure right. Referring to okay. So we have we have triple loop as part of the structure. Well, if you have a pure interface and no base class with APT with concrete methods, then that wouldn't be the case. If you would have a true strategy, your interface would not have, uh, a structure. Your interface would, um, would be would not have concrete implementations. Um. So this this would be an example. The true strategy would be an example, uh, of where the design doesn't necessarily control the algorithm structure because, um, yes. Why this code does not. Yes, because we do not. So in strategy you would have, uh, making algorithms interchangeable using composition. If you don't check this box, you have not checked, um, strategy pattern. So if. So the reason is because we're making the algorithms. Interchangeable. That's right. Yes. So in in the strategy, you always have, uh, some kind of delegation. Um, usually it's composition, but not necessarily always. Uh, it has to be some kind of delegation that is happening. There's no delegation happening. It's not a strategy. Yes. Uh, well be an example. Uh, in this case, um. We could have a an interface that defines need swap. Uh, and then our abstract sort would have an object of has a reference to it and the need swap interface. Uh, and then it would call need swap on its strategy. So it has a need swap strategy object that is stored inside of the abstract sort class. Uh, and then instead of calling its uh, its own abstract class, it will call the interface, uh, of need swap on the class that then only defines. Um, so the, the other classes would maybe look the same, um, or maybe add a little bit more behavior here. Um, that one maybe it's a little bit subjective, but, um, like you would, you would definitely need some kind of interface, uh, that you delegate to. Here we are not we're not delegating to an interface. We are just creating virtual methods that we call. Um, so the idea is similar to a strategy, but it's not a strategy design pattern because we lack this this delegation aspect. Yes. First note. Yeah. Um. I guess. Uh. I mean, um, is it like design is everything you would see in a, um, a class diagram? So I guess in this case we wouldn't actually see this in a class diagram. Design is everything that is, um. Design is the combination of relevant structure and behavior. It's just this definition. So for the algorithm structure, uh, is that the triple loops that are defined? So the question is, would it be like. Because like design could also refer to. Oh. Uh. This is why I don't like these questions. I mean, I just I just agree with you that I don't like these questions. Uh, which is why I'd rather spend time on the actual substance than on the wording. Um, but, uh, if you want to get very deep down into the definition of design, um, um, I would argue a design. Uh, um, um. A design is the high level ideas. If you know about Plato's theory of ideas. Okay, so Plato's theory of ideas. Let's get let's get let's get to design in a structured way. Plato's theory of ideas says that every single object we see in the world, uh, is an instance of a high level, uh, idea, um, uh, that we recognize as people. We, we see this chair and we have seen chairs before, uh, which means that we recognize the idea of a chair. Uh, design, uh, is referring to these, uh, recognizable elements in structure and behavior that people have seen before that, um, uh, define the essence, um, of the code. Uh, we see, for example, this divide by two grade J, like then the names of the variables, they are not design. They details the specific numbers we see here, the specific syntax we use in the uh, in the code. This is not design, uh, but the, the pattern of having a, a triple stacked loop with some condition inside. That's something you've seen before. That's, uh, that's an idea you recognize from some algorithms class. Um, the, uh, the structure of having a virtual class, uh, that is delegated to this is the template method design pattern. This is an idea that exists on, uh, a higher level. A higher level, uh, of abstraction than the specific programing language you are using. So design exists on a, uh, designer's concepts of ideas that exist not on the specific language level, but on a higher level of abstraction, um, and a recognizable ideas that you've seen before or that, uh, unique design decisions, unique decisions that have a large impact on the evolution and, um, understandability of the code. Um. I hope so. That that may be subjective, which is why I'm not going to give you a definite because the question whether they are easy to understand it a little more concrete or whatever. I think that is that is under this, um, subjective, uh, but I hope so. I hope that you will all agree that the questions you will get on your exam will be a little bit more, um, um, precisely worded. Um. Okay. We have. One more example and then we are going to switch to the exit ticket. Uh, mark all that apply, the code implements the strategy pattern. Oh, now we have to look at multiple different classes. So we have eye behavior move command. Aggressive behavior implements behavior with move command. And then it does something um and then we have defensive behavior and move command. Normal behavior implements behavior. And then we have a robot that owns an object of AI behavior and does stuff. Um. Does this implement the strategy design pattern with things that implement the strategy design pattern? You are very decisive. Uh, some of you are still. Okay. Let me. Maybe. Skim through the classes again. We have an interface, a behavior with a method definition. We have different implementations of this interface. We have um. Um. A class that owns a behavior and then sets A and gets A and does stuff with it. Who thinks is this is a strategy? Who thinks this is not a strategy? Okay. Uh, I think this is a strategy, even though, um, I would guess the bar for complex behavior here is still very low. It is. Doing more than one thing is more a return statement, but you know it. Yeah. Anyways, uh, yes. This is a strategy. The design defines the outline of algorithms and let subclasses do the work. Is there a superclass that defines the outline of an algorithm? Yes. Raise your hand. Huh? Where's the. Where's the superclass? Where do you see the superclass? I don't see a superclass that defines the outline of an algorithm. And let subclasses do the work. I don't see this. Um. Where do you see it? That's not that's a that's an interface that does not define any outline that just defines the function definitions. Um, so this does not define the outline of an algorithm because, uh, it doesn't say when things happen in what order things happen. There's no electrical loop. There's no loop at all. There is no that's just the definition of function. So this is why this does not define the outline of the algorithm. It just defines the outline of operations. Um. The design keeps control over the algorithm's structure. This one. Maybe. I don't even know what I would say for this one. Um. For this one. I honestly don't know what I would say. So I guess I'm with you on this one. Um. Keeps control over the algorithm's structure. Um. Hmm. Maybe. Yeah. The answer. The answer is no. Um. Um, I believe the reason for this is that there's no like, it's not the structure of the algorithm that the designers. Uh, but, yeah, this one I, this one, I kind of I'm also a little bit confused. Um, the design defines a family of algorithms that make and makes them interchangeable at runtime. Okay. This one, this one, I think, to me at least, is very clear. Uh, who thinks the answer is yes? Who thinks the answer is no. Okay, I'm glad everybody agrees with me. Yes. So we make it a changeable wired delegation. So here we have delegation. Um, this is not actually composition because we see that at runtime. Um, this is also why up I think I changed this because this is not actually composition. This is aggregation because it's defined from the outside, at least based on my definition of aggregation composition. And in my, um, interface inference system, the design puts all duplicate code into a superclass, and subclasses shared the common code. Okay, this one. I'm also pretty sure, uh, where my answer would be, uh, who says yes? Who says no? Okay. I say no because there are no subclass Superclasses, uh, that have any code and no Superclasses that have any code. Uh, the code is in the robot, but this is not a superclass, right? So the robot has all of the code, but this is not a superclass. This is why the answer here would be no. Okay, nice. We've made it through okay, because code smells and refactoring are so fun. Uh, I spent all of the weekend not getting a haircut. I want to get a haircut. But then I was like, I'd rather design tutorials for you folks. Uh, so, uh, I've built this code smells on refactoring tutorial that shows you UML diagrams, and then also lets you actually use the, um, idea code refactorings to make those, uh, on a high level, uh, which, uh, I hope you are going to enjoy. So, um, yeah, play around with this if you want to get a little bit more exposure to the topic. Um, and let me know if you find any bugs that might there might be some bugs, because this is just a weekend work and not a, you know, full week of work. Um. And yeah, fill out your exit ticket. Yeah. Oh the the the code is tutorial. So it's just this is the access code tutorial is the access code. Great question. With a capital T let me know if this doesn't work. Yeah I notice that somehow the number of exit ticket submissions were much higher than the number of heads that I see. So I was like, it's probably a good idea to enforce a little bit of academic integrity. Um, um, so we'll, we'll see if if that helps. Um, I don't usually like to do this, but, you know, if I see evidence of academic dishonesty and I have no way of, you know, identifying, then I feel like that's an easy way to do. Yes, the access code is tutorial. This is the access code. So if you're not filling out the exit ticket right now, make sure you remember this. This is why I put it here so that you remember. It's the title of the second to last slide.