[Auto-generated transcript. Edits may have been applied for clarity.] Ten because it is actually lecture 12. I'll just update this. Yeah. As well. This is lecture 12 and we were almost done with our programing, I believe, first and last. But no, we did not get to yet. Um, how are the projects going? Are you, like, happy? Are there any teams who feel unhappy? You are unhappy too. Should we assign you, uh, better teammates? So sometimes. Sometimes we have, uh, students who have teammates who do not contribute much or not at all. Um, you know, if that happens, uh, you can let us know, and then we'll maybe try to help you. But, uh, we also have this nice teamwork gem that is, um, linked in, uh, and the Bruin Learn page that is supposed to give you some advice on teamwork issues. So if you have any teamwork issues, you may try this first. Um, it's basically using a, um, Socratic approach to help you figure out a solution instead of just giving you, you know, an answer, because there's always not necessarily a right answer. But, um. Yeah, I hope you're all kind of like writing a lot of code for your project now, right? If you have not who who has who has written less than 200 lines of code. Okay. You should write more code. Write more code. Okay. A great way to. Oh, did I started recording. I do not know if I started the recording. So I will just make sure that I have. Okay. A great way to make coding and software engineering and software development more fun is pair programing. Pair programing is an expert practice that lets two developers code on the same machine. Um, so the way how this works is that there are two roles. There's the driver. That's the person who has the hands on the keyboard. That's the person who's actually typing. Um, and then there's the navigator. The navigator's role is to describe the, you know, high level approach. So now we're going to, uh, go into this module. We're going to implement this functionality in our designers, uh, interface. Uh, and then the driver is uh, actually implementing this. And the goal of pair programing is basically to have two people look at the code all of the time. So there's going to be no code that has only been seen by one pair of eyes. Um, because there's always going to be two people who look at the code, one who's actually typing, the other one who is the navigator. And, um, this is an approach that works really, really well, uh, for junior developers as well. So you would you would think that structuring your team project in a way where two people sit on a machine and code together is, uh, you would assume that the productivity of these two people is just, uh, the productivity of one person, but spend double the amount of time. So you you might guess that the overall team productivity, if the team is using paired programing, is like half of what it would be with single, uh, developer programing. And that's actually not true, especially for junior developers. Uh, programing actually has about the same productivity sometimes actually higher. Um, why may that be the case? Why could it be the case that junior developers. Uh uh. Basically double as efficient in a pail. Then they are alone. Any ideas? Any suggestions? Any thoughts? Well. They're coding separately. Hmhm. Yeah. That's right. Yeah. So you're asking kind of, uh, share experience. So somebody who has written the code that you're going to use is then the navigator or the driver. Right. So then you you share the experience about the code that has been, uh, has been written. Uh, you also, uh, it's easier to find a bug in the code that you've not typed yourself. Uh, so if somebody else is typing, it's often easier for the person who is the navigator to find the. There's a bug then for the person who is actually typing. Uh, you may have, uh, seen this yourself that the code you've written yourself, it's harder to find the bug than in the code written by somebody else. And with pair programing, you'll find these bugs much faster than you would if you would just develop yourself. And junior developers, on average, have more bugs in their code than senior developers. So you spend less time debugging, less time, um, figuring out what's wrong. Uh, because you detect these faults much earlier and, uh, to make maximum use of pair programing, you then often swap the roles, uh, so that everybody gets experience with being the driver and of being the navigator. You discuss some design decisions together, which is another reason why it's incredibly efficient, because, uh, discussing a design decisions of somebody who has different experience and different thoughts is often more efficient. And then, um, making a wrong design decision and then having to change your, uh, your decision later. Um, yes. It improves, uh, productivity. Um, so, uh, uh, product quality, it improves product quality. There are fewer bugs in code that was written by a programing a pass that has been shown in practice. There's improved team spirit, and that helps with, uh, transferring knowledge. So this is also why when you, uh, do programing, you want to kind of, uh, change the pace. So you don't always want to have the same people be paired up together. You want to kind of change the, the pairing from time to time so that you're working with somebody who has seen some of the code and it reduces product risk. And for uh, yeah, junior developer, this does often also improve, um, performance. Uh, not of the code, but of the, uh, of the developers. And, uh, yes, it's one of the common XP practices. Okay. Questions about programing. Who has practiced programing before. I hope many hands. No. Isn't this what you're supposed to do in 31 where you know someone and you should. You should code together. Did you not done this? Where have you not taken 31 with, uh, David small book? Maybe not every instructor is doing this. Um hmm. He does. I don't think the. But are you not paired with somebody for homework? Do. Huh? Maybe. Maybe some of it in theory. He asked. He told me that he has students and homework, and then you have a payoff. Maybe it was a different class. Or maybe it was in the past. Or in the future, I don't know. Uh, maybe I come from a different timeline. Maybe somehow I woke up in a different timeline. Yeah. This is kind of just like. Yeah. Exactly. Uh, yeah. So we'll have a lecture in the last week on, uh, generative AI development. And my recommendation is basically, uh, usually to use AI to be the driver, and then you're the navigator, but you can also swap the roles, I think for human developers, that can actually be quite helpful to swap the roles and then let I give you feedback on the code you've written. Um, that can also sometimes be useful, but, uh, usually you want the AI to be the driver and you'll be the navigator. Uh, and this is also the reason why I, but I still recommend, uh, everyone to get a lot of experience coding, because there's this nice thing. It's hard to be a navigator if you've never been a driver. So if you've not, uh, gained enough experience, actually, you know, having the hands on the keyboard and coding yourself, it's hard to be in the role of a navigator. Um, so I'm a little bit concerned about the youngest generation. Uh, that does not get a lot of coding experience because they I read all of the code because, you know, it's really, really hard to be a navigator if you've not been a driver before. Um. Okay. Other questions about programing. Cool. Then continuous integration. Um, what is continuous integration? May somebody give me a definition of continuous integration? This is kind of a trick question, because I assume that whatever answer I get, it's not actually the academically correct answer. Who wants to try? Yes. Our code base and then like doing the next one. And it's kind of like a cycle. What? That's actually the correct answer. Um, yes. So continuous integration is the software development practice of regularly integrating, uh, features into the main branch. Uh, and the goal, uh, behind continuous integration is that the shorter lift you feature branches are, the less likely it is to have what we call a big bang, where you have a lot of merge conflicts and you have to rewrite a lot of code when you merge it together. Uh, so the longer you wait between integrating components and features to test how well they work in collaboration, the worse things get. Um, so a bug written yesterday is easier to find than a bug written a month ago. So you want to integrate your features into main and integrate them with other features as quickly as possible. Um, and a lot of undergraduates think that continuous integration is just about using, um, um, the CI pipelines in your, um, GitHub actions or Travis or, uh, Jenkins or um, uh, any of the other tools. But continuous integration is more about the software development practice of frequently merging code together. Um, and yeah, you want to basically do this as often as possible. Um, so when I was an undergrad in a course similar to this one, um, they give students a lot of freedom in designing their own, um, development practices. But all teams have to work on one project together. Uh, and what happens, uh, sometimes is that the teams define that every single team has their own team branch. And then at the very end in the last week, they emerge. All of the team branches together. Um, and that always causes a lot of chaos. And the smaller version of this is that every team member has their own team branch. And then the last week you merge everything together. Do not do this. If you've not merged, who has a feature branch that is older than one week that has not been merged into main um for more than a week? Awesome. So, uh, either you're all working on main and you're not using feature branches, or you're already following the practice of continuous integration. Second option being preferable. Um, yeah. So you want to, uh, merge as often as possible. You want to use version and configuration management and you want to keep your build time low. So whenever you run, run, build your project and run your tests, they should take less than ten minutes. That's the goal. Because if they take more than ten minutes, then, uh, merging together is always a hard, uh, task because you have to wait like half an hour or two hours for all of your checks to pass. Um, and that's a lot of tool support for this. Who is using the GitHub actions in your project? Awesome. One team, one team. So I'll use GitHub actions to automatically run your tests and and run static checks on your code. Um, because this is how you find bugs early, and this is how you get exposure to exactly the kind of tools that, um, people use in practice. Um, that's actually a quite a lot of really interesting research on how, uh, how Google does this at large scale. Uh, because Google can't have a ten minute build, like Google's codebase is so large that running all of the tests takes like, I don't know, five hours or something like this, and they've come up with a really, really smart heuristic that if your tests fail, um, and they're like a thousand commits between the, uh, test passes and the test fails because that's going to be thousand merges in five minutes and five hours, right? Um, uh, then for really smart heuristics for this. So the big companies that have really, you know, uh, paid a lot of, uh, effort on how to optimize this kind of procedure. Um, okay. Questions on. Continuous integration. So you want to merge as often as possible. You want to have short lived feature branches. Once a feature has been, once a user story has been implemented. Right. So if you follow this principle of following invest, then you will automatically do this because you will have really small user stories. And once you implement the user story you merged into main and all independent, all small. They all testable. They all um. Um, um, yeah. That that's the best principles that help you with the continuous integration. So this all kind of fits together. Okay. So extreme programing is really, really applicable whenever you have small teams. So this is why I think, uh, teaching this in 130 is quite useful because you all have small teams. You have like 4 to 10 people in your team. I think most of your teams are five people. Six people. Um, so this this should work really well when the requirements are rapidly changing. That's not necessarily the case in your project. But, um, this is kind of what XP is designed for because in the real world, requirements are changing very rapidly. Uh, we could somehow make requirements change by, uh, making you folks do more work by injecting some requirements changes by not doing this. Um, and whenever working software is needed constantly. So the small releases and continuous deployment, that doesn't really make sense if you are, um, let's say NASA and you want to, um, uh, send a rocket to Mars, just, you know. Every five years or whatever. I don't know what the usual frequency is. It's kind of like, I want that. Um, then it doesn't really work well. But most software is kind of deployed nowadays in a, uh, in a iterative way. So there's not a lot of software that is not continuously deployed. Okay. Questions about XP in general. Okay, then let's move on to lean software development. Lean software development, uh, originates from, um. The Japanese. Um. Um, culture of Toyota. So Toyota has, um, uh, come up with a process that I think called Kaizen. Kaizen, um, uh, where they, uh, uh, car manufacturing process was optimized for completely different goals. And other companies have originally, uh, optimized for. So they try to follow the principle of reducing waste. Um, at Toyota, they try to product produce their cars in time. So there's no big heaps of, um, of parts waiting around for a long time. So at the time when new parts are needed, that's exactly when they are delivered. Uh, they don't wait around for a long time. Um, a lot of other car manufacturing companies try to optimize for the load of their machines. Um, Toyota didn't do this. And then, uh, these different ideas behind, uh, Toyota's, um, manufacturing process then, um, was copied by people in the software engineering community, uh, to create a software development methodology, uh, called Lean Software Development. And the main goal of lean is to eliminate the seven different kinds of wastes of, uh, software development. Um, so waste is basically time spend or effort spend on something that does not deliver value. This includes extra features. So when you write code that nobody really needs that your customer doesn't have use for. Uh, you are not just wasting your own time by writing this code. You're also wasting the time of everybody who reads this line of code, right? Every line that's written has to be read at some point. And you're confusing people by writing code that doesn't really have a purpose. Partially done work. If you have feature branches that live for a long time and are not really merged into main, if you have some partially done features, it's basically the same, uh, reason, right? You have a, you have invest the time into something that does not produce value. And you've also confused everybody who is looking at it or who needs it, only to wait for it. Um, um, you want to avoid partially done work? You want to whenever you start developing a feature, you want to finish it as quickly as possible. You don't want it to, um, remain in a non done part, um, for a long time. So these are kind of the, the two wastes that are more about kind of features and work. But there's also waste and human communication. So you want to uh, avoid people having to re learn something. Uh, so you want to have developers work on tasks that they are uniquely qualified to work on. Um, you want, uh, technical decisions to be made by the people who are, uh, the best to do this. So you want to assign a, uh, a task to a team that has exactly the knowledge required to perform this? And this is actually actually quite interesting, because we are seeing the same principle also applied to AI. When you have multiple agents that you want, uh, the agent to perform the task, who has, uh, who needs the same knowledge. So many of these principles, um, that apply to human software development then also kind of translate to AI based software development. So understanding these principles, uh, from a academic perspective then helps you, uh, recognize them, uh, in AI as well. Task switching is one of the worst wastes in any kind of human work, right? So when you are, uh, switching from one task to another usually takes of 15 to 20 minutes of time to kind of load everything back into your working memory that is required to perform the task. So whenever you switch from one task to another, you waste 15 to 20 minutes. So if your workflow is designed in a way that you often have to switch tasks because people can interrupt you, your customer can call you your a teammate can ask you a question, then you are um, um, wasting your mental effort on your mental effort is really what your, uh, what you, um, most valuable resource us nowadays. Um, so you want to minimize task switching? You want to design your entire process to avoid people being interrupted, and to make sure that people finish a task before they start another task. Um, hand offs. You want to avoid the number of people who have been and who need to be involved in a task, because handoffs then leads to, uh, v learning, it leads to, um, uh, task switching. Um, so whenever you can get a job done by one person. Was qualified to do this. Then it's preferable to do this instead of handing it over to somebody else. You want to also, um, basically shorten the chain of people who are involved in a task getting done. So you want to reduce the hierarchies. You want to have a direct line from, let's say, the customer to the developer. That's kind of quite common in lean in that you, you have um, um, you don't have a lot of layers between the developer and the customer. Of course. Delays and defects. They should also be reduced. This is maybe a little bit less actionable. Um, you do not want to wait for approval or management comments to be finalized. You don't want the test environment to disrupt your flow and prevent feedback. So anything that, um, that makes people wait for something should be avoided. So when you have a developer and the developer is ready to work on a task, you want the task to be, uh, to be ready to work on. You don't want the, uh, the developer to wait for approval from management or from legal or from from any other, uh, additional, um, authority. You want, uh, to optimize your process for, um, for nobody having to wait? No, uh, no user story has to wait in the backlog. No developer has to wait. And, of course, the, uh, worst waste in the space of software engineering is defects. The longer defects exist, the more waste they produce. Um, they they, um, damage our reputation. They potentially cause our customer to lose money. They, uh, uh, require our developers to switch context, to relearn something that they have done in the past. So this is kind of like, uh, building on the, uh, earlier wastes. Uh, so this is why, uh, Toyota actually had this stop the line mentality. So whenever they detected a, a defect, they stopped or production, and they, uh, let the entire organization fix this problem before they, uh, make any progress. Because once there's a defect, we don't know what what else could go wrong? And in software development, we also sometimes do this where once the bug is falling, we try to, you know, fixing it as quickly as possible before anything bad can happen. Okay. Questions about these seven wastes of lead in software development. Okay. So the goal is to reduce those. And um, the way how we reduce waste is by trying to optimize for minimal cycle time. Um, so the cycle time is the time between the end user notifying us of a problem or requesting a feature and the feature being deployed. Right. That's the whole goal. We want to reduce the cycle time. We want to avoid long planning meetings. We do not want to have like two hour, uh, planning Poco meetings and lean software development. We want to get, uh, features implemented as quickly as possible. Um, and this is kind of where, uh, lean has a completely opposite, um, uh, philosophy, uh, extreme programing, right. And extreme programing. We want to let our customer know. This is when you can get the feature in lean. You're not going to let your customer know how long it takes. You're just telling your customer to be patient. You know, like we take the highest priority item. We're always just the only thing we do. We are not planning sprints. We are just taking the highest value item at every single point in time. Whenever the developer is ready to take on a new user story, they take the highest priority user story and then try to get it implemented, uh, within the most efficient way possible, without any delays or any handoffs of any task switching. So we we just focus on we sprint this one user story and then we take the next most important user story. We'll has a question. No. Okay. Uh, well, that's another question. Um, yeah. So we take the highest priority feature, and then we'd tell the customer, okay, now your feature is ready. We do not have long planning meetings. Uh, we use a Kanban board to track process progress. So this is how a Kanban board looks like. Um, Kanban. You have a list of, uh, user stories or tasks that are in the To-Do column. Those are the ones that are kind of ready for a developer to pick. And then we have a, uh, in progress column where we put all of the user stories that are currently being worked on by a developer. Then we have a review column where once the developer has finished a feature, they, uh, request code review, which is gonna be the second part of the select. And we have a done column where we want to, uh, put all of the, uh, user stories or tasks that are approved. Um, and the goal here is basically. So once a, uh, user story has been moved from and from to do to in progress, it should go through this as quickly as possible. Um, so the highest priority is to move tasks from review to done because they're almost right. They just need to be reviewed. Um, so we want to, uh, schedule those activities first, and then we want to move in progress to review. And then if we can do any of those, we can move additional items from review to done, or we can move items from review to from in-progress to review. We then we we pick one to uh, to start from the to do from the to do column. And we always pick the highest priority tasks that we are qualified to work on. And this is why we always globally produce the most value to our customer. But we do not have the advantage that our customer has, uh, as much planning. Right? Our customer doesn't know when their features are implemented. Uh, we don't communicate this to them, but we make sure that they always get the highest priority features implemented. So you kind of see the difference there, right? Okay. Questions about this. Yeah, if you're only working on one. Oh, you have multiple people in the team. So one person is working on just one task. But you know, there's one person when they've when they've implemented the feature and put it in review, they uh, you know, then they have to do something else. So they may have to either review another feature or if there's no other feature for them to review, then they may have to, you know, start a new feature. Um, but we want to we want to, you know, get all of the individual items through this as, as quickly as possible. And they only one task at a time. You know, in theory, it sounds nice, but in practice, because you have to kind of still wait for other people. Uh, sometimes. Uh, yeah, you may sometimes have to work on more than one task. Okay. Other questions? Yes. In fact. This. Something. List or items that. Uh. So the good practice for a Kanban board is that every single item has a priority. So that's a high priority. Medium priority. Low priority. And then you would basically put these things and don't necessarily need to be done in any specific time. You would put those and like the low priority um item, um tag. Uh, so you can actually do this in GitHub. So GitHub has these GitHub boards, uh, where you can then uh have these columns sometimes that's also like a ready column that's different from the to do columns with the ready columns, everything they can now be taken. And then the to do column is the ones that are not necessarily ready yet. So you could then keep it in the to do column and not move it to the ready column. Um, and then you can um assign these labels. Who is using these GitHub boards in the project. I would really strongly recommend you to do this because this is really, really useful because you see exactly, uh, what you are the teammates are doing, you know, exactly what they are currently working on, you know, um, exactly when they requested a review from you. So, uh, and when, when you have, let's say like half an hour between two classes or let's say you finish your homework faster, you can just check. Maybe it's there like a user story you can review and like that half an hour that you got after you finish your homework a little bit earlier. Um, uh, so I think this, this is really, really useful. So I recommend you if you haven't started doing this, I do this in your projects because this will make communication much easier. Uh, you don't have to have like WhatsApp groups where you ask, oh, can you please review this? You just put it in review and then everybody checks review and then it will just get reviewed. If you, um, if you all follow this process. Okay. Yeah. So the goal of lean is less, um, to have a, uh, you know, specific number of steps that you should follow. But the, the values of lean software development is that you you have to identify what brings value to your customer. So identify value is understanding what the customer needs. Uh, and focusing on figuring out how to get these features to your customer as quickly as possible. So you only want to do something that has value to your customer. You want to map the value stream. You want to identify and eliminate waste. So you want to think about what is the waste in your organization. How can you eliminate this? Uh, you want to ensure a smooth and continuous flow from these different columns to minimize interruptions. Uh, yeah. Established pool is basically you want to, um, um, get items done, so you want to move them to done as quickly as possible. Um, and work on the highest priority issues. First, you seek perfection. This is the one that I personally like the most. I am, uh, unfortunately, a little bit of a perfectionist in many aspects. You want to make sure that all of the features you implement, uh, um, are really high quality because once you develop or deploy something that is not of high quality, um, this can create more waste and more defects and more delays. You want to build quality and you want to use practices such as test driven development, uh, code reviews, uh, whatever can make sure that you have a really, really high quality standard. Um, so this was kind of what historically Toyota was known for. I'm not sure if this is still the case. I'm not really into cars. Um, but, uh, Toyota used to be known for having really, really high quality standards. Um, and that gave them a reputation that made them quite successful. Uh, you want to empower teams, so people want to people have different skills and they have different, uh, capabilities. And you want to assign the task to the person who is uniquely qualified to get this done as quickly as possible without interruptions. Um, so you see that many of these processes are built on the observation that developers are not like, uh, like a, like a machine, right? Developers have, um, some cognitive limitations. They have, um, some process limitations. They have unique skills and unique experiences, and they're not all the same. Um, and, um. This is an observation that is, uh, maybe a little bit different from some other engineering disciplines. Um. But, uh, that makes us, uh. Yeah, create these processes that are designed to accommodate these limitations that we have because we have people. Okay. Questions about lean software development? Yes. So, like. Mhm. Like what? And we talked about. Is not very good. Yeah. When you're normally working on processes that are actually. Mhm. We'll talk about this at the end of the scrum lecture. So in the scrum lecture we'll talk about really large organizations that have to do a lot of like top down planning. Um, and um, yeah. So this is something that um. Uh, kind of speaks to the engineering nature of software engineering. There's not always a one size fits all solution. So the Agile Manifesto says, you know, we value these items on the left more than the items on the right. Uh, but there is no universally agreed upon process that works for absolutely everyone. Um, so there are a lot of situations in which, um, agile does not work. And let's talk about some of the risks they that arise from agile processes and what we may want to do to mitigate these risks in a project where these risks are really important. Um, so, uh, in suffered in agile processes, a lot of people have, um, neglected design. Um, because, you know, the uh, um, Agile Manifesto says working software is the primary measure of progress. So nobody says the number of tests written as the measure of progress, the number of UML diagrams we've drawn is the measure of progress. The number of, uh, design docs we have written, uh, a measure of progress. The manifesto says working software is the primary measure of progress. So, uh, writing tests, UML diagrams, design docs, all of this other stuff you've learned in this class is not what agile says is the primary measure of progress. But they also say continuous attention to technical excellence and good design and hence this agility. Uh, this is really important. So, uh, what the manifesto said is not that, you know, testing is useless. Design docs are useless UML diagrams. So that's not what they say. They say that just purely saying I have created UML diagrams so that I feel useful. That's bad. Just writing tests for the purpose of saying I've written down a thousand tests today. That's not what you should be proud of. You should be proud of. If you are using testing UML diagrams, design docs, and all of the other principles that you've learned in this class. If they enhance your ability to deliver high quality software, enable you to deliver features faster to your customer. So the manifesto is saying that all of the other, you know, software engineering activities have to be used in a very deliberate and thoughtful way. So you have to use testing when you believe it enhances your ability to make progress. You should write design docs when you believe. It helps you avoid bugs and helps you to get everybody in the team on board. Um, so just purely saying, I do all of these things that have been covered in 130, uh, just to feel useful. That's not agile. Um, based on this, uh, you know, manifesto that they have written. Um, but the best architectures and requirements and designs emerge from self-organizing teams. So instead of telling everybody in our organization, you always have to write a design doc before you implement a feature. You always have to have 20 UML diagrams for every single feature you are implementing. That's not agile. It's agile to tell your team that you are the experts. You know how to build your software. So we give you the power to pick the tools and the languages and the of the processes that you believe are best suited to develop the software that you are the expert to build. So agile works really well with people who really deeply understand, uh, the processes, the design techniques, the testing techniques, the tools they are using. Um, and if you have these, these teams, uh, then you should give them the power to make these decisions for themselves. So instead of having a chief operating officer or a chief technology officer say this is the process we all follow. We tell our teams that they have the power to, uh, design these, uh, rules for themselves. Um, and this is a really important, uh, insight, especially for those of you who, who have ambitions to get into management, that, uh, there is not necessarily one, one process that works for everybody. Uh, and when you're working with managers who have this, uh, uh, misconception, you can point them to, you know, the Agile manifesto or to empirical evidence or lectures that convey this idea. Um. Yeah. The other interesting insight here is that quality attributes. Um. Um, performance, memory consumption, uh, availability, security, safety. They are also really important if they are observable, if they produce value to our customer. So we have to prioritize the quality of outputs that actually really matter for our customer. So we do not optimize the execution time or availability of our software just for the purpose of doing it. We do it whenever it brings value to our customer. When our customer does not care about execution time. We do not prioritize execution time. So the, uh, philosophy of agile is to identify what is important and then focus on everything that is important, and giving individuals the power to make the right decisions to optimize for exactly what is specifically needed for their product. Um. That's what a lot of people kind of misunderstand about agile. It's not saying you should not do design. It's not saying you should not do it. Of course not. Saying you should not do testing. All of the agile processes, they all include some, uh, idea of testing. Um, and as you see in, in lean and in extreme programing, they all say, you know, it's good software quality. Good design is really important. But they say it's only important if it's done right. Okay. Design is not an initial phase, but it is part of every iteration. There's no single architect or top down design. So this is this is the idea behind agile. Um, and, uh, yeah, today, uh, I a lot of people, because they misunderstood this point. They looked at this, you know, working software and, uh, working software over comprehensive documentation. Uh, they thought that, you know, all effort put into design is waste. That's what a lot of people misunderstood about the manifesto. Um, and, um, what do you think? What challenges might arise from people not doing any design, from people completely forgetting what they learned in the design, docking, information hiding lecture? Yes. Right? So they end up with a big ball of mud. Uh, they end up with, uh, software that it's really hard to change, right? If you don't plan for change, you can anticipate, uh, you can't build the abstractions that make it easy for you to change the code. If you don't think about, um, change. You don't implement the right design patterns that anticipate this change, improving software quality. And if it's in general really, really hard, if you don't bake them into your initial design, it's really hard to add them in later. So if you don't have a any kind of design that is, uh, focused on thinking about how much availability do we need, how much performance do we need? Then you make design decisions that do not plan for those. And we'll see this in the software architecture lecture how you can actually do this. Um, also you tend to have a small bus factor because you have less communication. Everybody is just focusing on implementing the features. I hope that's not happening in any of the projects. I hope everybody in the projects often has these kind of design discussions about how to make sure that all of your features fit together, and you always talking to your teammates to make sure you have a very small bus factor. Okay. Um. And the solution that, um. Um, people have come up with this. This is the phrasing that George Fairbanks uses. Um, who is kind of my academic brother. Uh, so he also got his PhD from David Garland, and he wrote this really, really nice book, Software Architect. Uh, just enough software architecture, the risk driven approach. Um, and, uh, this is a very, um, practically minded approach that Google is using. So George Fairbanks is now, uh, teaching people at Google how to build software the right way. Uh, so if you end up at Google, you may come across, especially if you're working in New York. Uh, you may come across George Fairbanks teaching you about risk driven design. So the idea behind risk driven design is that you neither do big upfront design, but you do all of the planning, nor you do tiny upfront design where you don't do any design risk driven design. It's the idea that you figure out what are the most critical aspects of your software. What is the highest risk? What are the things we really have to get right? If we don't get those right, our software will fail. So we focus our design attention on these risks and the amount of risk that also determines the amount of upfront design that we do. Um, so again, there's no one size fits all solution. If we build a, um, a mobile app that is just kind of like a game, like a mobile game. There's not a lot of risk involved. But if we build a medical device or we build a space shuttle or we build, um, uh, a financial trading app, you know, whatever uh, we may do, we have to think about what is the amount of risk, uh, if the amount of risk is high, then we have to put more effort in our upfront design. Uh, and then, uh, we have to make sure that our design is specifically addressing, um, the risks that we've identified. So example risks can include, for example, programing languages that are really, really hard to change. So if we've picked the wrong programing language, that's going to be really, really hard to change. Uh, the target platforms, if we've not anticipated that we need to deploy this on iOS and Android, that's going to be really, really hard to change. Uh, our component architectures and our connectors, if we've not thought about our, uh, if you've not paid attention to information hiding and we've not designed our components in a way, uh, that is, uh, doing this right, this is going to be really, really hard to change. Our interfaces, our quality attributes. Uh, if our software is not available enough, it's going to be really hard to add in later. So if we get this wrong, then our complete product will fail. Okay, let's try this. Let's say we, uh, work at a company that is, uh, uh, developing an online shop. What kinds of risks may be involved in that kind of domain? What are the things we really have to get right if we don't? We're going to go bankrupt because nobody will. We'll be happy with our product. Yes. Data consistency. Right? Yes. Yeah, right. Privacy. Exactly. Right. Our our users want to make sure that the, let's say, uh, credit card information they put in and the specific products they've bought and looked up, uh, are not going to be leaked to anybody who doesn't have access to this. Uh, I think yeah. Security, privacy and also changeability. Right. So if we can deliver new features to our customer, our competitor will like there are a lot of online shops, a very competitive place. Uh, if we are not on top with our changeability and then somebody else will, that may, um, make it harder for us to compete. How about games? What kinds of things are really hard to change if you don't get them right in the beginning? Our game will not be, um, successful long term. Yep. Anything platform? Exactly. Right. So if we design our game for some console, and then our, uh, our users want to run it on a mobile phone, uh, that's going to be really, really hard to change. So we before we write any code, we want to think about what are the target platforms that our games should should run on. A few games actually got this wrong, and they didn't plan for the Apple Silicon, and now they don't run well on Apple Silicon. So if you have an M1, M2, M3, some of the games may not run there because they didn't anticipate that Apple would just come up with a completely new processor architecture. Um. Anything else that's really important for games. Yeah. Delays like. Is that well. Right. Yeah. So yeah, people, people kind of get upset when they have really high latency, yo. And when the frame rate is not high enough. Yeah. Yes. This isn't really. For perspective, the piracy. Piracy that. It's probably also a risk. Yes. Uh. I think that's probably a risk for a lot of software. But I mean, for games, you often have people who, uh, who may opt to like, pirate the game instead of paying for it. But in the business world, for example, you don't necessarily have that as often. You don't have people pirating Salesforce, right? But you have people pirating like the most popular games. That's that's a good point. Um. Anything else? I think the most important one has not been mentioned yet. Has anybody taken the class? Um. By Eunice June. Human computer interaction. Nobody. Okay. What have you learned in this class? Yeah, yeah. So you have to. You have to understand what is. What does the user want? So usability is the, uh, quality attribute that defines how easy it is to understand how to use features and whether the features are presented in a way that the user would like to. Um, so the usability, the platforms and the performance, these, these are often the highest priority. Quite a very for games. How about medical software. You want to create a radiation therapy machine or uh, a, uh, defibrillator or some kind of, um, diagnosis device? Yes. Right? Correctness, right? We want to make sure that there's absolutely no bugs. If there are bugs, they can literally kill people. And that has happened before, unfortunately. Um, correctness. What else? So this means you probably want to make sure that our software is designed in a way that it's, uh, anticipating. And it's easy to test that it's easy to, um, uh, uh, fix bugs. Uh, anything else? Yeah. Reliable. Right. So. So reliability means that it should be available quite often. And it should also work in a lot of different situations. Uh, so let's say our device should work, uh, it really hot and really cold weather and, um, maybe places where you don't have, uh, a power available all the time. Uh, so, yeah, reliability, robustness, testability, they're all kind of important for medical devices. And then, uh, after you've identified what are the, um, uh, highest risks? Well, you do is you do kind of risk storming. So this is a, uh, uh, approach that, uh, Simon Brown came up with. If you can go, you can go to risk storming.com and see, uh, this approach, which is really, really fun. So you draw some kind of architectural diagram, uh, and then, um, you identify important risks by writing them silently on post-it notes that you then attach to somewhere around the diagram where you think it's relevant. Uh, and then you use different colors for different priorities. If you think this risk is really, really important, you use the red color. If you think it's medium important, use yellow. And then low priority risk is green. And then after you've kind of, uh, silently been putting these post-it notes on, then you, you share them and then you discuss them. And it's kind of like a really nice team activity. You may want to do this for your team project if you have a few. Um, um. Yeah, I mean, you probably haven't done this because you've taught you this before, but, uh, yeah, this is a really fun activity where you kind of think about what are the most important risks that you should design your system for. And you usually do this kind of somewhat early in the process. So maybe now it's maybe a bit late for your project to think about risk storming. Um, but, um, yeah, the advantage of this is that you get the experience of different people. So somebody who is the security expert may be more qualified to think about the security risks. Somebody who's a database expert may be more qualified to identify what are the, uh, data availability and data, uh, conformity and, um, other kind of availability properties. Um, and, uh, it's also just supposed to be super fun activity to, to do with other people to think about, you know, what could go wrong in our software? What could prevent us from, uh, uh, from being successful? And then you want to specifically make sure that all of these risks have been addressed. Um. And, uh, yeah, when something is, uh, really has a high cost of change, you want to put more upfront design to those that it has a low cost of change. You want to use a slightly more lean design, and you want to make the really, really big decisions early and then defer smaller, uh, decisions until later. So that's the idea behind risk driven design that you first think about what are the things that can go wrong and they can prevent us from success. And then we focus most of our design attention on just those elements that are high risk. And then we adjust our process based on the overall amount of risk and how how critical, uh, the risk is for the success of our software. That's just a kind of a very adaptive process. And you see, this process works better for people who have more skill to have more experience of this. Um, and this is something that I feel like, you know, I is just going to struggle because I doesn't really understand, you know, what, what makes software successful? Because if you've seen this, but, uh, recently, even with their newest frontier models like OPA 4.7 and GPT for a 5.4, uh, there was this, you ask, I, um, um, the car wash us, uh, two minutes away. Should I drive or should I walk? And then I would say, well, it's just two minutes walking. You should, of course, walk. Right. And, uh, it doesn't know that, you know, the whole reason why you want to go to the car wash is to bring your car there, and then you do not, can, cannot walk your car to the car wash. Um, so, yeah, I just doesn't really understand the real world. And that's you, uh, that's your advantage. You identify what is important for your software, and then you can then plan accordingly to adjust what is important. What what do you need to take care of? That's risk driven design. Also, uh, the manifesto says responding to change over following your plan. You can only respond to change if you have planned for change. So you have learned a lot of different, um, techniques in this class of design. Patterns of information hiding then allows you to plan for change. So identifying what could be changed and designing architecture to allow these changes will make you be able to respond to change more effectively. So, uh, that's this nice thing by Robert C Martin. A good architect maximizes the number of decisions not made. And you have to invest energy and thought and effort into making sure that your architecture is allowing you to make these decisions later. They do not naturally emerge, uh, architectures that allow you to make changes later. And I is incredibly bad at designing its, uh, architecture to allow you to make change later. It's also really, really bad at changing code, um, without introducing side effects, which. Yeah. Anyways, um, this is not supposed to be a lecture just bashing AI, but, uh, it's, uh uh, yeah, this tells you that you still have, uh, a lot of value to contribute and design and really understanding what you are doing. So information hiding, low coupling, high cohesion or principles you've learned to design software in a way, um, to allow changeability to take place. Um. And, uh, we've talked a little bit about feature backlogs. A feature backlog is basically a list of all of the user stories, all of the features that the user wants to be implemented. If you only focus on the feature backlog, just only always just implementing user stories, your system after a few iterations may look like this. Well then your customers like. I don't understand why it takes so long to add a new window when your software kind of looks like this. So we call this technical debt. Technical debt is the result of short term oriented decisions that make future changes more costly or impractical. So if the only thing you optimize for is by getting the next user story shipped, then, uh, you introduce technical debt and, um, a good agile process somehow takes care of this and a lot of different ideas how this works in practice. The one that I personally like the most is by having a technical debt backlog in addition to your feature backlog. So the feature backlog captures all of your user stories. Um, and then your technical debt backlog, uh, captures all of the tasks that you should take care of to optimize your architecture. So let's say, uh, you are you are very, uh, close to release, right? You have to just get this user story delivered. You have to implement this feature. You have to introduce some technical debt. You feel bad doing this because you've learned the technical debt is not good to have, but your manager would be really upset if you wouldn't introduce this technical debt. So you create a technical debt backlog item where you say, I've committed this, uh, technical debt crime. Uh, I will take care of it afterwards. Um, or, um, you identify that as a really big refactoring. You should do that you didn't see coming because you didn't see these abstractions in the first place. And now your customer has told you that they may need some features in the future. And you see, okay, there are some technical debt that has been accumulated that makes it really hard to add this. We may want to tackle this technical debt before we implement this feature. So you maintain this two different backlogs. Um, and then you have usually one person in charge of the feature backlog, which is somebody who really well understands what the user needs. And then you have the software architect, somebody who is very highly skilled in design and quality assurance, who is then in charge of prioritizing the, uh, the technical debt backlog. So you have two people in charge, uh, for each of the different backlogs. And, um, yeah. So this can be code smells. This can be we just ship the feature. We forgot to document it. So we'll do the documentation later. Or like architectural changes that support performance scalability or changeability. So this is going to be feature, uh, backlog, a technical debt backlog items. Uh, there are two ways how you can, uh, structure those. So we can say that for every single iteration you take some feature backlog items and you also take some technical debt backlog items. So every single iteration you also improve your you pay down some of your technical debt. Uh, this is the approach that I would usually recommend you because this results in a very continuous stream of features. So then your customer will always get some features every single iteration. Um, but uh, sometimes your technical debt is growing too much more than you can, um, just pay off in your technical debt allocation. And you may have to allocate one sprint just for reducing technical debt, because otherwise it's going to be really hard to make any progress. Um, but I would recommend you to avoid this one dedicated sprint for paying off technical debt, because then your customer would be like, oh, I didn't really get any features this sprint. What's going on? Are you actually doing something? Am I going to pay you for for nothing or what's going on here? Uh, so yeah, this is why I would recommend you to, uh, always take a few technical debt, uh, items into your into every single sprint as well. Um, but, yeah, this other alternative also exists in case there's, uh, there's a need for that. I guess the best time to schedule a technical debt sprint is after the release. That's probably the best time to schedule it, because that's usually when it accumulates. And that's usually when your customers happy because they just got a new release. Um, but yeah, questions about technical debt and how to deal with technical debt in an agile process. So I guess the difference between an agile and honored hypothesis. And in an agile process, you're more likely to accumulate technical debt because you iteratively change your program. You do not have this long design planning meeting. So in an in a waterfall process, you just don't really have as much technical debt accumulated because you've you've anticipated everything from the beginning. In an agile process, you have to accumulate technical debt because otherwise you wouldn't actually work in an agile way. So then you have to plan accordingly to reduce the technical debt when it makes sense. Uh uh, when you join an organization, make sure that your manager knows what technical debt is, because if they don't know it, they will not make your life easy. Okay. Nice. Let's take a two minute break and then we're going to talk about code review. She was going to ask you to answer your question on homework. Not at Le Hex, but, uh. Uh, Angela's, uh, hackathon. Okay. Let's talk about code review. And code review is one of the things that we ask you to do in the project. So it's good to know how to do this effectively. Um, historically code review has been done, um, in so-called Fagan inspections. So historically, Fagan inspections work like this, that a group of people came together and then they would read aloud the source code in a long meeting, and then everybody would make sure they understand every single line of code and ask questions and identify issues. And that has been incredibly effective at finding bugs. But it has been super slow and a lot of waste. So what is happening nowadays is basically that whenever we've implemented a new feature, we assign like 1 or 2 people as a reviewers to look over the code. And um, when we, uh, there has been a really nice study by Microsoft Research by Christian Bird and his colleagues on, uh, the expectations and motivations of modern code review. So they asked developers what, um, what is the, uh, primary goal of code review and what would you guess? Did developer say, what would you guess are the main reasons and the main motivations for code review? Yes. Bug finding. Exactly. You would expect that to be the whole point of doing code review. Any other goals that you could think of? What's your name, by the way? Lydia. Lavinia. Okay. Lavinia. Knowledge sharing. Right? Yes. Uh, Nathan, I think you had raised your hand. Yeah. Um, it's going to be like that coding format. Like, uh, coding format, checking the code. Ideally, we have some automatic static code analyzers that do this for us. Um, but, you know, some of them like meaningful variable names, the kind of hard to check automatically. So that is also a good reason. Yeah. So what they found is that, um, a lot of people expected code review to find bugs, to find defects and also improve the code, discuss alternative solutions, transfer knowledge. Be aware of what other people are doing. Uh, and a few others. Um, what would you guess? Um. Turned out to be the reality. When you look at the comments and code reviews, what's the percentage of comments? Uh, in these categories, what is the category that has the highest and lowest and uh, percentage of comments in actual real world code reviews at Microsoft? What would you guess? Yep. Knowledge transfer. Good guess. Oh, right. You know, like candy. Um. Any other guesses where where in that list is going to be finding bugs? What percentage would you guess? Uh, of the comments are like, oh, this this looks like a bug. Your health is 50 or 60%. Wow. That's a very high guess. And it's exactly the opposite. Um, so an incredibly low percentage of around 15%. Uh, it's about defects. Most of it, like almost 30% is, um, code improvement and understanding. Um, so defects actually just 15% of. You would expect a really high percentage to find bugs or to discuss potential bugs, but that's not actually the case. The expectation is that code reviews find bugs, but the reality is that it's just transferring knowledge, improving readability, maintainability. And, you know, some sometimes also find votes. So when you look at this, uh, you see that the top three categories are in, uh, you didn't put the comments in place. You're naming, uh, a new variable. Names are not great. Your styles are not great. The organization of codes are alternative solutions for long term maintainability. Know around 15%, uh, about reviewers indicating potential defects and 50% distrust about the long term maintainability. Uh, and this is really interesting. So the authors of the code then ranked this comment, and they identified only 33% of the comments they received they personally thought were useful in any way, shape or form. Uh, so this kind of shows you that code review in practice is often very inefficient. It's not doing what people think it's doing. Uh, and even the things that it's doing are not necessarily perceived to be useful by people in practice. Um, so I think this is a good motivation to think about what makes code review actually, uh, effective. Um, and, um. Yeah, a little bit more context. So there was a slightly newer paper from 2015. Um. Uh, also by Microsoft Research that mined all of the review, uh, data. And they identified that, um, uh, the review tool is open like five, 5 to 6 hours per developer per day, and they interacted around 30 minutes per day with the code review tool. So around 30 minutes per day would be spent on code review. Um, yeah. With these primary goals, uh, and the real world benefits that we see from code review in practice. Um, this was the 2018 paper was a little bit more more recent where they identified that it ensures code readability and maintainability. And this is really interesting that, um. Um, the functionality of the code is not the only measure of quality, right? The bug freeness of code is not the only goal why the code exists. So I usually like to say, um. Source code. Writing source code is, um, uh, the goal is to express your, um, ideas in a way that a machine understands, but also a human. So Robert C Martin says, any fool can write code that a machine can understand. The goal is to write code that a human can understand. Because humans have to change it. Uh, so thinking about the maintainability and readability of a code is actually quite valuable. And I think developers have to, uh, change their expectations about code review more in line with, uh, what actually matters. Um. So this is why at Google they specifically say, okay, in our company, uh, code review does not actually have the goal to find bugs. We have other means of finding bugs. We have tests, we have some verification. Uh, the reason why we do code review is that our developers have to write code that other developers can understand. And, uh, the research has found out that these, um, guidelines generally increase the effectiveness of reviews. So you want to have 1 to 2 reviews. So at Google, they they identified that at their organization. A single reviewer is the sweet spot at Microsoft. They identified that in their organization. Two reviews is the sweet spot. So I'm not really sure where the difference comes from if this is organizational difference or developer difference, such as measurement difference, but you know 1 to 2 reviews you don't want to have like 4 or 5. That's kind of when it becomes incredibly inefficient. So the forget inspections of like a whole group of like ten people looking at the code, that's not really effective. They also identified that the, um, quality of the review very significantly degrades after about one hour of review. So when you're reviewing code, you want to make sure that you do not spend more than one hour on one review. If you are the author of a pull request. You want to keep it below you know, somewhere between 200 and 400 lines of code. Uh, this may surprise you, right? Because you've probably opened up a request that's way larger than who has open a pull request. It's way larger than 400 lines of code. Okay. Probably everyone. Okay, so humans do not give good feedback on super long pull requests. So what we find is that once the pull request is like over a thousand lines of code, people just like, skim it and like, okay, it looks good to me. Okay. I'm not going to read all of this. Just looks good to me. I skimmed it for five minutes, you know. So the longer the pull request, the shorter, uh, the time that people actually look at it. Uh, you would think that the longer a pull request takes more time, but that's exactly the opposite. Once it's like above 400 lines, people just skim it and be like, okay, I don't need to review this. Um, yeah. So they're not red and people are just kind of superficial. So like, they want to appear to be helpful so they find like some nitpicky thing where they're like, oh, this variable name. Okay. Now I have left a comment. So it's there's evidence that I've provided feedback. Right. This is probably what you may have done when you have reviewed a really long pull request. This is what I have done and pull request I have reviewed when I was still reviewing for everybody does this. So do not, uh, incentivize people to do this by creating a really, really large pull request. Um, yeah. So instead of bundling multiple unrelated things together, you want to have small, focused reviews where you, um, submit the smallest coherent feature that provides value, uh, to as a review to your, uh, code developers. Um, and then you can kind of stack your pull requests that often create some challenges with like a lot of different feature branches. So this is again why you want to reduce the waste. Do you want to delay you don't you want to get rid of all of the delays. You want to make sure that your pull requests, because they are very short and it just takes them like 20 minutes to review, a half an hour to review. Um, we want to get those reviews done as quickly as possible so that we don't have to wait for these reviews to finish. So this is kind of how all of this really fit together. Um. Um, and, uh, yeah. So the takeaway from Research on Modern Code review, um. Is that, um. New reviewers learn fast, but they generally kind of need 6 to 12 months to be productive, um, and to effectively contribute to the team. Um, um, and people do not usually find bugs and focus more on maintainability. And the right way to do this is to really embrace this and be like, okay, this is what the whole point of our review is. I think that someone had a slide on, um, code review at Google last. Is this okay? I may have been somehow dropped. Um, but, um. Yeah. So what they do at Google? It's actually really interesting. So, uh, at Google, you have to pass a code readability test for a programing language. Uh, once you have passed Google's code readability test in a programing language, then you are allowed to review code in that programing language. Um, and they also define, uh, a uh, owner of um, uh, a piece of code and that is then in charge of overseeing all of the reviews, uh, of that piece of code. Um, so different organizations have different kind of, uh. Goals and ideas about how you conduct code review, but I personally think that the best way to think about code review is to, uh, ensure that the that the code is sharing knowledge, sharing experiences, discussing how to make the code better readable by humans. Um, and um, this only really works if you do not overload your reviewer, because if you overload your reviewer, they will not actually do it. Um, yeah. Uh, also, we generally believe that a good way to ensure that you can actually find code review, that you can actually find bugs is by thinking about what are the pre and post conditions of each of your, um, methods that you're implementing and then explicitly documenting these. In the past, we have taught, uh, formal logic, logic and how to do this. I decided that this quarter I will not be, uh, covering Hologic. Um, where's the cheering? Where's the stream? There's no cheering going on. Very sad. Uh, maybe you should still still cover anyways. Anyway, students absolutely hated Hologic in the past, so I'm not going to cover Hologic. Okay. Uh, I thought that was kind of like a one thing that in 130 covers hologic that nobody knows anyways. Uh, okay. But, uh, if you want to be an ineffective code reviewer, you have to master the art of code comprehension. Code comprehension is where I personally believe in the next five years. Um, uh, the difference between a great and an, uh, an a good developer will be made because I believe that in the next five years, developers will spend an increasingly large amount of time just reading code and in a, in any, uh, shrinking amount of time actually writing code, because, you know, they have the AI agents that actually write the code for them. I think at meta, nobody actually has written any code in this calendar year. Um, all of my friends and industry say they have not written a single line in the last month. Um, so training yourself to, uh, quickly and effectively comprehend code is where I believe, uh, your near-term, um, maximum, maximum viable skill is. Uh, and there are two different code comprehension approaches. Um, you are most likely right now in the bottom up category. Um, the bottom up category is the one most favored by by novices who have not had like ten years of industry experience. The way our bottom up approach works is that you start from the concrete and then you build abstractions by reading line by line. So you basically started the first line and you try to understand this line. You read the second line and you read the third line and so on. So you basically read the code from top to bottom, but it's called the bottom up approach. Who feels like that's the kind of way how they read code. They read a line by line. Okay. Interesting. What? What do the other people do? Do the other people do? Top down. Okay. We'll see. Okay, so the top down approach works completely differently. So the top down approach is not reading the code line by line, but it's starting from a hypothesis. So you read the code and you start with the hypothesis that this code is doing x. Uh, and then you are looking for evidence that proves or disproves your hypothesis. Uh, we call those beacons that are key lines of code that reveal the core purpose. Um, and then you start from a high from a big picture. This is why it's called top down. You start from the abstract and then you try to form a you identify the details later. So you start from the high level idea of this is an application that it has these components. You basically start from a more like a UML view than from a from a code view. Um, and then you work your way down to find the pieces of code that implement the functionality that you actually try to find. Okay. Who feels like they are, uh, doing something like top down right now? Oh, wow. Wonderful. Great couple of you are, uh, already there. Uh, the research has found that this approach is vastly superior in 99% of the cases where people can actually do this. Um, but, uh, it takes more experience to do this. And, uh, even the best experts, sometimes they still do a bottom up reading. Uh, so this is not necessarily, um, uh, always bad, uh, but it takes way more time. And the reason why it takes way more time is that you you have to keep more things in your working memory. You have to read every single line, and you have to keep more things in your working memory. This top down approach is optimized for reducing what you have to keep in memory, and it's helping you specifically just focus on the portions of the code that are relevant. To answer the question you have. Uh, and I see this and, and undergraduates all the time, we give them a long, um, a piece of code, and then they, they kind of slowly read it line by line. And they have a question about completely unrelated code. Um, uh, do not do this. Only try to, um, start from a hypothesis and then find the pieces in the code that are specifically doing this. And the way how you move from a bottom up to a top down reader is by building some domain knowledge. So you can only recognize patterns, and you can only start with a good hypothesis. If you really understand what this, uh, piece of software is about and you're familiar with the terminology, you're familiar with the design patterns in this domain. Um, and this is the reason why we don't usually see undergraduates use this approach, because they haven't build as much domain experience yet. Um, but you want to be very familiar with the application domain of the program. You want to build some domain knowledge. Um, and if you lack these schemas, then you often kind of have to resort back to this chunking approach where you read line by line, and then after you have made sense of, uh, we call those chunks, you then create a semantically higher meaningful. So this is kind of cognitive psychology. Maybe you skip this part, but um, yeah. So you can only bottom up chunk if uh, if you don't have any schemas, if you don't have any knowledge of the patterns in the code, then you have to kind of resort back to the chunking approach. Um, and uh, yeah. So my, my recommendation here is so before you look at the source code, you want to think about what are the actual requirements of this is what does the system actually do before you read the code. Just, you know, understand you know, what are the user stories with the high level functional requirements? What are the high level quality requirements? You look at some architectural documents, if they exist, maybe get a sense of the high level component, connect the architecture, maybe looking at a system level sequence diagram that shows how the components interact with each other. Um. And looking at like a high level system. Summary of what are the large components, how do they interact with each other, and understanding what the system is supposed to do in the real world, then gives you the foundation to build up your top down expectations. If you don't really know what the system is supposed to do, it's hard for you to find a good hypothesis of, you know, where is the code? Um, so, um, yeah, that should be your first priority. Before you jump into a job, you want to build up this experience, you want to read up on some design patterns and some architectural tactics and styles in this domain, um, and, uh, identify what are the what is the common vocabulary that people use? Um, and then you have a much easier time and navigating, um, complex piece of code. And then after you've built up this domain experience, you want to practice this hypothesis driven approach. And this is something you can do literally today. Uh, whenever you read any piece of code. Right. It doesn't matter what the piece of code, piece of code is that you read. You want to start by first thinking about what is the question that you want to answer? Uh. From reading. Why are you reading this code? I guess if you if you do code review, maybe, um, your hypothesis is that the, uh, uh, code is somehow buggy, or that it's, uh, what it's supposed to do in that you do test this hypothesis. So you you start with a question instead of, um, starting with an answer. This is what the code does. You start with a question that you want to answer. Um, and then you think about what piece of knowledge would allow me to answer this question, to test this hypothesis. Uh, and then you specifically look for these pieces of evidence that help you answer this question. Um, and this is what we call beacons. So a beacon is a, um, uh, is a piece of evidence that tells you what this code does. Um, so since a top down reader doesn't read every line, the scan for, uh, these signs, these, uh, you know, signposting in the code that helps you, uh, orient yourself, it helps you navigate this really big, um, uh, code base and to test your hypothesis and, um, you want to build up a knowledge of beacons in the code and then scan these files for these recognizable patterns. Uh, and when you identify these patterns and then, uh, you are going to be a much better top down reader. What? Uh. Um. Okay. One example of beacons. Uh, structural beacons. For example, identifier names. So if a, uh, class is called the um, over overtime calculator, then that is a sign that this class, uh, you know, doing the calculation of overtime. Um, so this means you want to make sure that the code that you are writing has these beacons so that other people can identify the meaning quickly by looking at the variable names. There has been quite a lot of research that, um, code that uses meaningful variable names and meaningful identifier names of classes and packages and components is much easier to understand. Uh, and it's actually quite interesting that, uh, of course, if you use misleading variable names, this is worse than having no meaningful variable names at all. Um, so you want to make sure that you pick the right variable name so that other people who read the code can then look for these beacons. Uh, and when you're looking for these beacons, you want to first think about, you know, what are the meaningful identifiers I could find to, uh, you know, orient myself in the code. So if you're trying to find the payment calculator, you may want to search the code base for payment over time. Uh, so you look for this, you know, search for these, uh, beacons. Um, what other beacons? What other signs of, uh, what the code does and what other signs in the code could exist that help you test your hypothesis? Talk to your neighbor. Okay, you have not actually quite a few beacons in this class already, so who remembers things that tell us what the code does, how the code does it? Things that help us understand code? Yes. Design patterns. How to design patterns. Uh uh. That can be. That's right. So you can understand why the code is doing and what the code is doing. You can kind of understand the collaborations that the object may have, and the other beacons that may help you understand what the code does, why the code does things, how the code does things. Design patterns. Yes. Yes. How do tests help? Test like. Show you? Exactly. Exactly. So if your hypothesis is that this code is doing something, you can look at the tests and check whether this is actually what the code is doing. You can actually invite a test yourself if you if you want to use that as a, as a way to um. Um, to test your hypothesis. Anything else? Any other beacons? Now you may. Look for? Yes. Comments. Comments. Write like documentation. Checking the documentation that could be in the code. They could be in external documentation. They could be somewhere and like a Readme file, an architectural document and a design doc. Right. So those can help you get a high level idea of what the system does, how the system does it, why the system does things. Because you've documented the goals in your design docs, right? This is exactly why you write your design docs, so that people can get a better idea of the high level architecture, why the system works this way, what the system does, and what were the design considerations that people have made. So by creating these artifacts, you are helping other developers follow this top down approach. And when you're joining a team, then you can specifically look for these these documents. Anything else. Yeah. Daniel. However, handling is a kind of. It's like. Would not be included. That makes sense. That makes sense. Okay. Also, just in general, the code structure can be, uh, a, uh, a hint, right? So if you look at the code and it has like for loops inside for loops you have like a double for loops or you have, um, um, you know, code structure patterns give you a little bit of a sense of what algorithm may be used. Um, um, this is kind of more low level. And then of course tests. So this is deducing the author's original intent. It's an executable, unambiguous specification that we know will always be up to date because it's run, uh, regularly. So the downside of human written documentation is that it may be outdated. So a design doc that has been written five years ago may be outdated. Uh, a comment that it has not been changed for two years may be outdated. A test is very, very likely to be up to date because it's. Unless it's somehow excluded from from execution. The test is going to be a good ground truth of what is the actual specification of the system, uh, assertions. This is, uh, why I love putting assertions in production code, not just inside of your tests, but as you look at a, uh, function that has a precondition assertion and a post condition assertion it will give you, because it will tell you this is what my, uh, function expects. This is what my function provides, um, looking for pre and post conditions and invariance for code that is specified in assertions. And the way how you can help other developers is exactly by putting these assertions inside of your code and saying, okay, I wrote this function assuming that, um, this value is not null or that the integer is larger than zero, or that, uh, the parameter, uh, the two parameters do not have the same value or whatever. Whatever your, your assumptions are, if you explicitly put them in the code in assertions, I know that they will always be true for all of the code. Um, and that is executing because it will automatically be checked in your code. Uh, so putting these assertions in the code can be incredibly helpful to anybody who tries to make sense of your code. Design patterns. Of course, if something says singleton or factory, you know exactly what it's supposed to be. And this is why studying design patterns are so effective, because it helps you build these, uh, schemas. It helps you, um, form look for these little patterns in the code that make it easier for you to make sense of the code. And of course, if you're working in a team that is using diagrams or that has a infrastructure in place that automatically generates diagrams, and AI is getting really, really good at doing this. So if you're joining a project that does not have any diagrams, you may just ask your cloud or your GPT five or your, uh, your Gemini, your jetski, uh, to generate a diagram for you. And then it will probably generate some diagram that kind of looks like UML, but may not necessarily be 100% correct UML, but it may. Um, yeah, it gives you a better idea of a high level structure that would take you maybe a couple of hours to, to identify. And you're not familiar with these different views. So you can read these diagrams more effectively than, than somebody who hasn't studied this. Um, and then. Yeah, you want to, uh, go through this continuous cycle of hypothesis testing, hypothesis generation. You want to generate hypotheses. So you, uh, for example, assume that the system must have a, uh, database connection module, and then you hunt for a database connection module. You look for SQL endpoints, you look for, uh, DB connect methods. Um, because you have, uh, written database connection modules yourself, you kind of know what kind of, uh, uh, code might be around that. And then, uh, you look for these beacons that help you test your hypothesis, and then once you've test the hypothesis, you form a new hypothesis until you have all of the knowledge you need to make the change or implement the feature or review the code or whatever. And you may also want to embrace what we call opportunistic processing, which means kind of toggling between top down and bottom up. So sometimes when you are reading some code that is really important, you want to actually switch to the the bottom up approach, right. So this is something that, um, a Korean natural book and I will be teaching in our generative software development course that when you let I write the code for you, you are not going to have the time to review all of the code, right? Like, I will write more than 400 lines of code for a single problem, right? It will probably write like maybe tens of thousands of lines of code. If it's a really large prompt. So you will not necessarily have the time to read all of the code. Uh, so then you want to use this top down approach to figure out what is the really important code. Where is the code that is really risky. That is really critical, where we want to make sure that this is exactly what we need. And then once you have done that, once you have identified this part of the code, then you think it's very critical for the success of your feature. Then you want to kind of switch back to the top down approach and very carefully review this specific piece of code that is very critical for your for your success. And this is kind of what people do in practice right now. They basically kind of, uh, they do not necessarily review every line of code. They rely on their tests. But then, uh, whenever, um, there's a pull request, they want to specifically look for the most important parts of the code. This is how people now use AI in practice. Um, and you can only really do this if you have, uh, uh, gotten a little bit of practice with this top down approach. And then you kind of know when to switch back to, um, but not because you have identify what, uh, the highest risks in your team and your project. Okay. Questions about code comprehension or top down? Reading. I think this is one of the most interesting, uh, research insights that self engineering has come up with in the past two decades, that these two different code comprehension approaches exist, and that one is just vastly superior but underused by novices. Which is why I love to teach this. Um, because I think this is where you this is the kind of skill that you're not gonna learn if you've not been told that this skill exists. Okay. Questions. Okay. Then. Do we want to? Quickly go over clean code in like five minutes. Okay. Let's go. Let's go. Over. Quick. Clean code in five minutes. Um, so one goal of a code review is to identify what code is clean, what code needs to change, what code is easily understandable by humans? Um, and the is this term out the, uh, uh, coins this clean code. And there are different definitions of what clean code is. It's the godfather of the eclipse. Who knows what eclipse is? Um. Wow. Three for all five. Wow. Okay. I ask this question at 35 last quarter and nobody, nobody knew what eclipse us. So I guess 130 is a bit older. Uh, so clean code. He says clean code can be read and enhanced by a developer other than its original author. I really like this definition. Right? Uh, it's not necessarily saying it has to conform to a specific format or style. It's saying clean code is code that can be understood by another human. And the way how you know that you understand the code is by feeling comfortable making changes. Um, Michael Feathers. Uh, he says clean code always looks like it was written by somebody who cares. That's getting a little bit more poetic. Uh, well, it's like you, as the author of code. You care about the person reading the code, so you make it easy for them. You put these beacons in place, right? You say, I want to make it easy for somebody else to read. So I write this code to, uh, uh, express my care for the person who is reading the code. Um, what? Cunningham, the original inventor of the wiki, said, uh, you know, you are working on clean code when each routine you read turns out to be pretty much what you expect, right? This is kind of a a different way to say, um, a top down reader starts with a hypothesis, and the hypotheses that people come up with usually turn out to be true. So you write your code in a way. Now, people who have a hypothesis about the code do not actually have to check the code. And then Grady Booch, um, um, the one of the, uh, four amigos who invented UML. The clean code is simple and direct. It reads like well-written prose. This is maybe where he goes a little bit beyond what most other people consider to be clean code. It never obscures the designer's intent, but rather it's full of crisp abstraction and straightforward lines of control. I think this is a bar that most code in practice is not actually reaching. Um, but, um, my definition is clean. Code effectively convinces the reader that the code is likely free of bugs, and gives, uh, contributors the confidence that everything will be fine when you make changes. And there's nothing unexpected. Clean code never betrays this trust. So likely free of bugs means it prioritizes simplicity. So this is a quote that basically says, um. There are two ways to write code. Um. A way where it obviously does not contain bugs and a way where it doesn't contain obvious bugs. Um, the first way is much harder, and the confidence for contributors means the code is robust to change it. Um, violated assumptions are called early. So this is why you put assertions in your code so that if the code makes assumptions that are not actually true, that they are caught early. Um, and research has found that, um, I guess this was me before I but, um, uh, yeah. I'm not sure how the numbers would change with I, but code is read 10 to 14 times more often than it's written. So every minute you put into making, um, the code be read faster can pay off 10 to 14 times. Uh, if you do it. Well, um, developers spend 48% of the time on code understanding. So if you can speed up code understanding, this is a really, really large impact on our productivity. And I think this this number will go up. I think this number will go up. Um, there's also the broken window effect. This is why, uh, it's really important to make sure that no unclean code ever makes it into a repository. Uh, researchers have found that, uh, once there is some unclean code, developers start to also write unclean code around it. So if there's a broken window, then there is more crime going on. This is also true for, uh, for software. So if there's some unclean code, people start to write unclean code. So once you introduce the code smell, there will be more code smells around that piece of code because people like, oh, well, if the other developers if this past code review, then I don't have to pay attention to clean code. So, uh, this is why, um, you sometimes want to avoid even introducing the slightest bit of technical debt, because that often multiplies. You do not want it to multiply. Um, and the way how you can make your code clean is by simplifying the structure. Okay. This is maybe something that we maybe want to do next week. Uh, we I'm going to review some code, and then we're going to find some, um, uh, some structural elements. Okay. Then we're going to move to. The exit ticket. Uh uh, yeah. So we ask you to do a little bit of code review in your, uh, in your projects. Um, so I recommend you to, uh. Yeah. The next time you are going to be opening a pull request or your reviewing a pull request, kind of think about how you can incorporate, uh, these techniques, uh, and. Um, yeah. If you use AI in your project, which you are allowed to do, if you explicitly market in your code, then I would recommend you to practice, especially the top down reading approach, um, and reviewing the code written by AI. And then, uh, because I think this is going to be this the faster you can review AI written code. I think the more, um, uh, the more likely you are going to be promoted as a junior developer. Um. So you want to kind of like practice your your code comprehension skills. I think this is a really, really under practiced skills, a skill among undergraduates, because there's no course that's like having a homework on understand this piece of code. I've been thinking about whether I want to integrate this in 35, but I have not really thought that. Find a good way. Um. If you have a good idea on how to integrate that into a homework or into a course project, let me know. Yes. Is it David or Daniel? I always mix it up. David. Okay. So. Oh. The, uh, password is burned. The last name of the researcher who did all of the code review research Christian Bird. Oh, and, um, because it's like 15 minutes before six. If you're not aware of this already, there's going to be a town hall meeting for the CSCs images. Basically everyone here in the room and, uh, where we're going to listen to all of your questions and feedback on the program. And I hope all of you, because you don't have anything better to do because you've filled out your exit ticket in five minutes. Uh, it's going to be there. I will be there.