[Auto-generated transcript. Edits may have been applied for clarity.] So. And it doesn't. Okay. So. Let's address the elephant in the room. Let's address the elephant in the room. When one third of your entire class and half of the students who submit an exit ticket go through the trouble of acquiring a password that is used to circumvent the mechanisms that are put in place to enforce your course policy. I think that is a situation that needs to be somehow addressed. Um. I. I personally feel like academic honesty is incredibly important. I think when you look at the responsibility that software engineers have in this world, um. Robert C Martin says um, decisions are made by politicians but are implemented by software engineers. We are in charge of writing the code that makes self-driving cars work. We are now in charge of developing the systems that reshape the entire society with artificial intelligence. And I think, I think. This is an enormous responsibility. And I think I think it is a it is a goal of education to create honest engineers. Um, it has been a really interesting story. Um, I'm not sure if you've learned about this in your, uh, engineering ethics class. Um, but, um, in New York City, um, there was a skyscraper. There was, uh, built by a, uh, civil engineer, um, who made a mistake in calculating the, um, um, the strength of the skyscraper against different kind of winds. Uh, when he realized that he made this mistake that would, uh, most likely lead to the collapse of the skyscraper, uh, within a few decades. Um, he had the option to either, um, correct his mistake, come forward or to, um, you know, stay quiet. Um, if you would have stayed quiet, the building would now probably already have collapsed and would probably have created a domino effect where a range of, uh, a ten block radius may have been impacted. Um, fortunately, this engineer came forward, um, and corrected his mistake. Um, I believe people who are correcting their mistake are showing that they take responsibility. And I would love for every student who has committed academic misconduct to please do this. Um, I know that I'm kind of preaching to the choir because usually the students who are in the class, uh, are not the ones who would do this. Um, but I thought I wanted to say this, and some of the students approached me to have a debate about academic honesty at UCLA. Okay, who has opinions on this? Who would like to share their opinions about this? Yes. Uh, so, uh, as I talked to professor yesterday, actually about and then I thought that I think like for the most part, I think a lot of us think of academic as honesty, as, like cheating an exam, you know, and a lot of us would be like, we would never do that, right? Uh, maybe not all of us, but, uh, like an exit ticket, and, I don't know, like, it might seem like small. Like a small thing. Like it's still like, uh. Uh, what do you call that? It's still, like, in the syllabus and, like, going against the syllabus. Just disaster, no matter how small it is, can be a big deal. I think a reason why I have professor is because, like, uh, the stakes are pretty high for me, at least. I think there's some others, like, a lot of you are graduating, too. And, uh, it was like, if it weren't for, like, an investigation, for example. Right. Uh, you know, situations, job situations, grad school, all sorts of things. Because I chose this, let's say it because, like, you submit an exit ticket when you're not supposed to. And I think that states like, kind of like definitely made me realize, like, yeah, no matter like how big it is, there's like a set of principles you should follow. And, uh, it's hard to think about that. Yeah, I think this makes sense. I mean, the next two tickets make up 5% of your grade. So every single exit code is like 0.5% of your grade. Um. Um, I don't have a problem of people not coming to class. I don't want to use exit tickets to force people to come to class. Uh, I implement this policy because the academic research says that exit tickets have, uh, a very strongly positive is very strong positive impact on the learning outcome of students. I'm here because I care about the learning impact I have, um, on students. Um, I when I applied for teaching positions, I had an an offer from Carnegie Mellon. I turned down the offer from Carnegie Mellon because I, I felt like submitting so supporting the mission of a public school. I was students who may not necessarily have the financial means of paying for a Carnegie Mellon education. Um, and supporting a larger group of students instead of just a 20 student classroom. I have a 200 student classroom. Um, would, uh, would feel more fulfilling. Um. I have to be honest, I felt like on Tuesday that that decision felt like I felt like the the goal I had to educate students was, um, it didn't seem as meaningful anymore. Um, when you see that one third of your students in your class, um. I'm not really interested in. And, uh, honestly accepting responsibility for the, um, for the decisions they're making. Um. And especially when you consider that the reason why, um, UCLA is able to offer education to a wider range of students is because of, uh, the support from taxpayer money. I feel like that puts a responsibility on students to, um, to become to, to give back to society. And I think the way how you give back to society, uh, is not by, um, um, trying to get an unfair advantage by violating a policy. Um. So, um, I talked to the people at the, uh, Office of Student Conduct. I talked to, uh, the associate dean of, uh, student affairs of the school. What we should do about this. Because by the book. By the book, I think many of you may not necessarily it wouldn't not not necessarily be able to, uh, you know, receive your degree, uh, on time, because this process can take a long time. Um, the Office of Student Conduct is not equipped to, um, to handle these cases. Um, in the, uh, you know, in the time that you have. Uh, so, yeah, I try to make something work where we can handle this internally, and I've got the blessing from the school. Um, because even though I value, uh, academic honesty, I feel like this should not be something that ruins the career of somebody. Um, so this is why I. This is why I said, uh, if you come forward, you know, we handle this in class. Um, and the, uh, the question that we should all now kind of agree on is, what should we do, uh, with students who have, uh, you know, uh, had the courage to report themselves. Should they just zero out the exit ticket from Tuesday, which in some cases may not necessarily actually be a consequence at all because you have three, three passes anyways? Or shall we go through a slightly more harsher decision and saying, okay, uh, uh, we zeroed all of the scores from your, um, from your earlier exit tickets. Um, what I thought what what are your thoughts on this? Does anybody have thoughts on this? If I was to talk to the professor yesterday. And then I'm one of the students who come forward yesterday, and then I think I know what I did was wrong. And then on on the second Tuesday and then I see, like from my perspective, I would accept any analysis for the professor's effort to not like escalate this issue. And then I know internally I would say I would accept whatever like the class decides. That's very great. So if anybody have any opinion, if there are no opinions, I'm just going to make my decision myself. Um. Yeah. Okay. Uh, just to, um, um, make sure I understand your point correctly. If, let's say a student, um, has cheated on all of the previous exit tickets, they would still receive all of the points because they get 3 or 3 passes. So if we basically, uh, 0 or 1 of the scores, uh, there would still, you know. So, like, we could say we could zero out four scores instead of all. We just zero out four scores. How about that? This is kind of mixed. And then you have some consequence, but not necessarily the, uh, the super harsh consequence. Mhm. My mind was like, well, okay, that's great. Any other opinions on this? Okay. Then it is decided we are going to. Oh, yeah. That. Um, it might also be a. Yeah. And so for all the previous. But yes, there will be some. Mhm. Get away! They might not be done. I see okay. Yeah, I see the point. So, uh, the reason why I introduced the password, uh, was because I noticed that the numbers were off. Um, so, um, like, I know for a fact that this was not the only day where academic misconduct was committed. Uh, it was the day where I actually counted the number of students because I wanted to know how large the differences, and then seeing a little difference of, like, 50% that that shocked me. I was like, I was expecting maybe like, like maybe ten students. 20 students maybe. Um, um, so I think I was surprised by this. Um, but, um, yeah, I see a point. I. Uh. Yeah. I mean, I honestly don't know for any single case, like, let's say all of the 45 hopefully come forward by the end of the day. Um, there will probably be some students who have only, um, um, you know, cheated on this one single exit ticket. Um, and, um. So everybody still has the has the option to go through the official channels. Um, so I think if somebody wanted to do that, you know, of course that's you're right. You are welcome to do that. Let me know. We're going through the official channels. Um, but okay. Yeah. So that to me, that sounds like the, um, the consensus of the people who wanted to voice their opinions that there should be some consequences, but not the harshest consequences. Uh, and that would basically imply canceling out for exit tickets, because that means we have zeroed out the three exit tickets course. Um, and then also deducted one more. Yes. Mhm. Mhm. Sitting in the back of class not paying attention of course. And I just like. Mhm. Like you know. How do you look? Okay. So, so so what I said in the, uh, in the announcement is that, uh, for students to come forward, you know, the decision we've just made with the four tickets, uh, cancel out will be applying if, let's say only 20 students come forward. Right? Then I know that's going to be at least like, like around 20 other students who have not come forward. Um, and, you know, if if it is a number like that, then I would feel like I'm not doing my job if I'm not at least kind of trying to identify who are the most likely students. Uh, the the process at UCLA works like this. If instructors see evidence, they report this evidence to the Office of Student Conduct. The Office of Student Conduct is then having a conversation with the students. The students may appeal. The students may confess the students method. Uh, may deny. Um, so when I say I report cases to the Office of Student Conduct, this does not mean that I decide the student is guilty. Uh, this decision is not made by instructors. Instructors do not make this decision. I am. I'm offering the confession and then doing this to to streamline the process so that students can graduate on time. Um, but, uh, I'm not making any harsher decision then. Um, then it's the is the the live practice here. Uh, the live practice is for for instructors to, uh, to, um, submit the evidence that they have. And then the Office of Student Conduct is investigating. Um, of course, I'm setting the bar for for evidence before I report. And at the level where I feel like I'm very sure that the student has, uh, uh. I can definitely rule out that the student has listened to the lecture. Uh, I mean, if somebody is sitting in the lecture not actually listening to the lecture and then filling out the exit ticket, um. That's not what the exit ticket is for. Right. That is not. This is exactly why the exit ticket says you should not fill it out from the slides. The the point of the exit ticket, uh, is because research has found out that the actually, some of this research has been done at UCLA. If you use the read operation on your brain, if you recall memory, this memory is stored more effectively than if you're re exposed to the same information multiple times. So if you sit in this lecture and then you summarize what you've, uh, what you have learned in an exit ticket, this is better for your long term memory than if you would rewatch the lecture or look at the slides afterwards. And there is enormous, uh, evidence that recalling what you have learned is the best way for you to ensure that it is long term memory. I'm here to teach you long term skills, because I believe that we live in a world where the deciding factor between who who will be successful, who will not be successful, is the human skills that you have acquired. Um, this is the purpose of the exit ticket. Uh, for you to remember what you have learned so that you first, uh, strengthen your storage strength of your memory P, and that you identify what you have misunderstood. If you just go back in the slides and just say what's on the slides, you're not actually checking your own understanding. And then it's hard for us to know whether the students have understood the concepts. I like to re-explain something when I look at the exit tickets, and I see that a lot of things have been unclear. I like to re-explain it hasn't really been necessary in 130 and 35. I do it all the time. Uh, this is the whole point of the exit ticket. The exit ticket is not supposed to look at the slides and just copy something that's on the slide. This is why this explicitly is mentioned on the exit ticket. Um. But yeah, I see your concern. I definitely do not want to report anybody who, um, who is innocent or I guess innocent is the wrong word. They don't call it innocent. They call it was not committed academic misconduct. Um, um, I think, um, I've not had a case where I've assigned a dog raid that then did not actually get resolved in, you know, with student end up confessing. Um, um, so I think I have a pretty good track record on this so far, and I don't want to change this. Um, but I think if, um, if there are students who are coming forward and the other students who are not coming forward, um, I feel like having more consequences for the students will accept responsibility than for the students who do not accept responsibility is also the wrong choice. Right. So there there are there are different, uh, considerations to be made. Um, and of course, when when I report these cases, I try to, um, weigh these consequences in a way, um, that is protecting students who are who are honest. Um, I, I've talked with all of my colleagues about how I can handle this in the future, because if you have one third of your students not sticking to your policy, that that's kind of like, um, that's when you kind of want to rethink what you're doing. Um, and a lot of them have, have suggested approaches where, like, I shorten my exit ticket time. I make it just ten minutes. Right. I just give you ten minutes. You don't have time to, uh, forward your password to anybody. But then I'm kind of creating a lot more pressure on the honest students. I don't want to do this. I don't want cheaters to define the policy of how I'm conducting this class. Um, yes. It possible for us to just have, like, a piece of paper so students can write down. And then just make sure they go right. Uh, that is, uh. Oh, you mean, like, signing into a sign on sheet? I've done this in 35 L, and students absolutely hated it. Um. Uh, not the students who single blank, um, uh, like a lot of students, don't like having to line up and then sign the name. Uh, maybe in 130. That might work, but it's, um. I feel like it disrupts the normal flow of the class more than necessary. Um, but, uh, you know, if you want to do this, we can. We can do this. Yeah. Mm. Do you want. Who would who would like after class signing. Who would dislike after class signing. Okay. Somewhat somewhat equal. Um, okay. Any other thoughts before we move on to. Yeah. I've done this in 35. We have a lot of students who love taking notes on the slides, who love, uh, checking earlier slides to look up something that they have, um, that they've, uh, misunderstood. Right. Um, I mean, of course it would be nicer for them to raise their hand than we discussing it in class, but some students may be a little bit too shy and they don't want to do this. So again, this is this. I tried this. And then, you know, the honest students are like, this is not helping me learn. And I want to support the students who want to learn. Um, so this is why I'm posting this slides. Um, who would feel unhappy if I would release the slides only after the exit ticket has been due? Okay. Yeah. Any other thoughts? But this this is a good I mean, you have you basically had the same idea if I, you know, there are many. It's a this is why I changed the lecture order. Because this is a problem of software architecture. It's a problem of quality tradeoffs. Um, yes. I mean, uh, one of the classes I did is someone did we do, like, everyone supposed to be end up of the class and then just tear a piece of paper right out of your question submitted. And then it's like, I guess, like the job to go and, uh, count the attendance, but I don't know. Yeah, I don't know. It's a little bit more overhead. Maybe. Maybe for 130. Um, we can do this. Uh, it's more overhead, but, um. Yeah, I about, like, recognition software. Oh, no no no, no, we're not, we're not, we're not. No no no no. Just know. Yes. My clicker. Uh. Location restricted. Oh. Do it. And then the link projects the slides onto your phone and then ask the question about the current slide. And then you have. Which I think is pretty good. And he thought who? Who would dislike this idea? Nobody. It's like. Yeah. Yeah. I think you have to download a specific app. Right. Mhm. Oh okay. Okay, maybe. Maybe I'll do this. You had another year outside with you. I've seen it done for, like, four minutes. Mhm. Okay okay. Yeah. Then I'll then go up but maybe not necessarily next week. We'll see. Maybe I mean next time I'm teaching. Okay. Any other concerns. Um, yes. Um, um I don't know if cause the only concern that I might have about that. Click here that there. We don't have enough time for the exit ticket. And I think you get like an hour or something, like on Tuesday there was a midterm or something. And I remember we were like rushed out of the lecture hall because, I mean, just students were like swarming in. So. Yeah, yeah. Usually I try to have like ten minutes for you to fill it out. And I guess usually ten minutes should be enough. But sometimes students have questions after class, right? This is why I don't like to just limited to ten minutes. Because sometimes if a student has a question then he would fill out the exit ticket afterwards. And I do wanna support that use case. Um. Yeah. I always vote for the people in class on the. Smith or. Um, so the decision, I guess we have collected some opinions and then seemed like there was a consensus on deduction for, uh, for exit tickets. Which is basically equivalent to deducting one exit ticket minus the free passes. Okay. Yes. And use this for publications that they are trying to added onto X tickets. Kind of restricts it more to an attendance checker than actual like learning like and promoting like a learning environment. That's not what the evidence says. Or sorry, not evidence. But for us students like let's say um, like, oh, not putting up the slides like any sort of ways to try to enforce. That's. Ends up being. Um, sorry. We can make learning more difficult than just trying to put the burden of learning. Exactly, exactly. So I, uh, I want, uh, I want to find policies that do not restrict the ability for honest students to learn that that is that is kind of my personal main goal. Um, I don't want dishonest students to to make me do something that then makes the life of honest students harder. Um. Um. Yeah, I think I click as probably a good idea, because then we can also have a few more kind of polls, uh, in the middle of the class. I like this quite a bit. Um, okay. Anything else? Yes. No, it would just replace it. So yeah, that's the idea. That's the idea. Okay, nice. Then let's talk about. Software architecture. Software architecture, um, was, uh, an academic discipline founded by David Garland and Mary Shaw. Um. Um, I have very, very fond memories of these people because they are, uh, amazing professors at Carnegie Mellon. David Garland has been my PhD advisor. Um, uh, that was the reason why I applied for a PhD at Carnegie Mellon. Uh, because I wanted to do research on software architecture. Uh, and I knew that, uh, both of the, uh, the mom and dad of software architecture, uh, had Carnegie Mellon, um, and they defined software architecture as, uh, uh, the software architecture of a computing system is a set of structures needed to reason about the system, which comprises software elements, relations among them, and properties of both. There are two main different definitions of software architecture. This one, um, is the um, kind of modeling reasoning definition of software architecture. Um, we also have the um, USC, UC Irvine definition of software architecture that says it's the set of all design decisions that are important. Um, so we make design decisions. And then after we've made all of these design decisions, that is our software architecture. What is the when we think about these two different definitions, uh, the set of structures which can be dynamic views, uh, structural views. Uh, if you think about this, this is basically kind of like a set of kind of UML diagrams, right? If you think of the software architecture as a set of UML diagrams versus we think about it as a list of decisions we've made. What is the what is the main difference between these two different views on software architecture? Any thoughts on this? Yes. Like? To me, it seems like it requires an. Decisions. That's very interesting. Right. So. And, um. Uh, in the, um, USC, UC Irvine definition, we, we describe software architecture more as kind of like the rationale behind our choices. While, uh, the CMU definition, uh, is maybe a little bit more, um, just factual. Right? It's like that's what we ended up with, but it's not necessarily saying why. Um. That's true. Um, I think the way how most people think of software architecture, uh, outside of people who do research on software architecture, is purely structural, purely a, let's say, class diagram or component diagram. Most people don't think of software architecture as also including behavior. Um, um. I personally think this is a really, really, um, misguided way to think about software architecture. I think you need to think about software architecture also as the collaboration between these elements. Um, the reason why, uh, David Gordon and Mary Shaw define software architecture this way is because, um, we want to define software architecture as what is necessary for us to reason about, uh, properties of the system. So anything that helps us predict how the system may, uh, either behave in a specific environment, what kind of quality attributes it has, um, how maintainable the architecture is. Whatever is important for our system design should be measurable on this, uh, software architecture. Um, so the reason why we care about software architecture is not just to document it, but to reason about the implications of our decisions. We want to create a record of our system in a way that is, um, uh, that allows us to then make predictions without it. Okay, so this makes sense. That's right. Yes. Yeah. I think rationale is really important. Uh, so I'm not saying that, uh, like, this definition is not saying that rationale is not important. It's just, uh, saying when we talk about software architecture, we are talking about an artifact. We're talking about something that we can study. We're talking about, uh, kind of like a capture of the system or a snapshot. Uh, we are thinking about something that we can, uh, that we can analyze so we can model, uh, while some other people are saying the software architecture, um, is more of a, um, uh, is, uh, is an, uh, evolution of decisions. Right. It's not a snapshot of the system. It's a it's a history of the system. It's more like a git view than a, um, than a snapshot view. Okay. Oops. To help us come up with a software architecture. Uh, we first think about architecture drivers. Architectural drivers, uh, the, uh, also known as architecture. Architecturally significant requirements are basically the inputs of the process that then creates the software architecture, architectural drivers, uh, basically the requirements that, um, if those requirements would change our decision for which, uh, design we come up with would change. Uh, so they describe unstructured wants and needs and, uh, then out of high importance and high difficulty. So whenever something is, um, really difficult to do, um, and, um, um, it has a high impact. We consider it an architectural driver. And, um, which techniques have you learned to describe requirements? Stories. User stories. That's right. Anything else? Yes. Well. Acceptance. But I guess like part of user stories, like, um. Yeah. Exactly. Quality attributes. Quality attributes. So, uh, functional requirements. Uh, uh, basically what we capture of our user stories or other ways of specifying them. Uh, so at architecture time, we usually consider really, really high level functional requirements. So, uh, those are not usually like low level user stories. They are usually like the system shall allow users to book flights. This is not going to be like a whole user story on booking flights. This is going to be a, uh, really high level specification, just so that we get what kind of top features the system is supposed to do. Um, and then we have constraints. Constraints can be of technical of business in nature. The difference between a requirement and a constraint is that a requirement tells us what we should do. And a constraint is already making a decision for us. So a technical require a technical constraint would be because the entire organization is using MySQL. That means we also have to use MySQL. Well, because the entire uh organization knows C plus. Plus we have to, uh, implement the, uh, the design in C plus plus. Or that development costs may not exceed $100 million. The system may use and must use the same database technology that our customer is using for other projects. Um, so constraints are not something that the, um, that determine, um, what we should build, but constraints are, um, reducing the design space. They're reducing the ability for us to make decisions. And then quality attributes are, uh, nonfunctional requirements. Sometimes people call them, um, extra functional requirements. I like this definition a little bit more because quality attributes are not the opposite of functional requirements. Quality attributes are the um, um. Um, uh, additions on functional requirements. Something like, uh, the with every request shall receive a reply within seconds. The system shall have at least 99% uptime. Um, at CMU, in the software architecture course, students have to follow the six part quality attribute scenario framework. I'm not going to make you do this in this class. You're not master students. Uh, I usually, uh, teach it just as the scenario and the measure. These are the two things you want to think about. Yes. Yeah. I mean, uh, so people use the, the term nonfunctional requirements. Uh, I don't like it. Um, because nonfunctional sounds like, um, a nonfunctional requirement is like the system should be fast. That is a nonfunctional a quality attribute. S, uh, this type of request, uh, should have, uh, a response time of of X, right? Um, if you think about nonfunctional, you often think about something that's not has nothing to do with the functionality. But that's not what quality attitudes are. Quality attributes are, uh, attributes that you add on your already existing functionality. So you kind of, uh, to get a quality attribute requirement, you usually take some high level functional requirement and then you add a measure to it. You say this is the scenario in which the measure should look like this is a quality attribute. Other questions. Okay. So then um, qualitative it's measure characteristics of goodness, kind of like, uh, this function describes what the system should do. Customers describe how well it should do it. So we have extensibility availability, security performance robustness interoperability, testability. You've seen some of these already. Um, and um you want to think of software quality attributes as load bearing roles. So uh, David Garland loves to uh, use this metaphor. So think about this lecture hall. Let's say this lecture hall fits 360 students. I think that's roughly about the size of this lecture hall. If next quarter, uh, we need to have 500 students in this lecture hall. Uh, this means we need to expand this lecture hall. What could we do to make this lecture hall fit 500 students? Yes. They go. I guess it could do that. That is probably not. Oh, sorry. Uh, improving the student experience. Yes. Okay, well, the room is already built. So what could we do? It makes chess smaller. Any other ideas? Yes. Oh, that's an interesting idea. We basically play, like, some kind of theater. Something like this. Oh, we could just move one of the walls, right? Maybe this wall. We can just expand it this way. Uh, or we can maybe move that wall. Right. So there are going to be some walls in this building that I'm more like paper walls, right? That we can just tear down and they can move them, uh, in one direction. Uh, but they want to be some walls that if people try to do this, the entire building would collapse. These are called load bearing walls and civil engineering. And in software architecture we call those quality attributes. So quality boards are often load bearing walls. What does this mean. This means that if you do not plan for your quality attributes early in your process, it's incredibly hard to add them in later. If you want to add quality attributes in later. You often have to kind of tear down the entire system and build it from scratch. Um, this is why you want to think about specifically your quality attributes early in the process. They are very hard to change later. They define the limits of future change, and they in general should receive a little bit more, uh, design attention. So you want to think about quality attributes as this kind of like rough structure. And then some detailed features are just kind of like, uh, the furniture you add in the room, right? Uh, these are things that you can easily change later. These are more volatile requirements. Um. The goal of software architecture is basically to get this rough outline right, so that when our requirements change or when we have different, uh, scenarios that we can, um, uh, handle this accordingly. Okay. Questions about this. Okay. They are additions. Additional characteristics that the system shall have besides functionality. So modify ability you want to. For example, think about the ease with which a class of changes can be made to a system. We measure this usually by the cost of change, which can be development time. So we can say adding a new feature of that type would take us just one week. You could also measure modify ability. And we do not have to adjust this subsystem. Right. You basically say for that kind of change we don't have to touch that module. Uh, testability is the ease with which software can be made to demonstrate its fault through testing, which is typically execution based. So this is how we're going to, um, look at on Tuesday. Um, testability, um, is a is a quality attribute you want to use to evaluate how easy it is to test your system. Um, this, I think is going to be, um, is this a quality attribute that is often really neglected, which is why I like to spend an entire lecture on it. Availability, the ability of a system to mask or repair faults measured by percentage of uptime, mean time to repair, or mean time between failures. I think this one is probably quite, uh, understood. So we usually, uh, express the availability as the number of zero as the number of nines in the system. So if you have 99% uptime, that's usually, um, much cheaper than 99%, 99.9. Whenever you add an additional nine to your availability requirements, you usually kind of double the cost of the availability, which is why we usually just think about the number of nines. Um. Performance is the ability to meet timing requirements in the face of types of demands measured in the average minimum maximum latency, throughput jitter, or deadline miss rate. This is, um, I think, a good quality attribute to think about why I don't like the term nonfunctional requirement. Performance is not saying that every single thing that should happen in the system should complete after 10s. You're basically not requiring that every single process in the system, should it have a specific, um, response time. Now, your quality requirements are very strict. They are saying for this type of request, this is what we really care about. If the user is making a request, our minimum maximum average response time should be something, uh, in the range that we have, uh, specified. Um, uh, so we add something, we add a measure on to a functional requirement. Extensibility as a quality attribute. That's kind of like a subtype of modify ability. So you want to think about the degree to which a system minimizes the amount of effort and error prone ness of adding additional features. So this is more extensible than this. If you need to modify a lot of different modules to make a change that requires more cognitive effort and, um, has a more likely, uh, higher likelihood of you messing up of introducing faults and things like this. How can we specify extensibility requirements? How about this one? The system should be extensible. What do you think about this? Who likes this quality output requirement. No hands go up. Why do no hands go up? What is bad about this? Uh. Yes. Right? That's right. Okay. Let me give you a better one. Let me, uh, let me say, um, we're thinking about, let's say, like some kind of robotic system, and we say adding new sensors should be easy. What about this one? What do we think about this one? When? What do you mean, exactly? I don't really say what easy means. Like easy for whom? I guess it easy for Claude. Is it easy for us? Um, how about, um, adding new depth sensors should not require changing components that process depth images. How about this one? Yes. Exactly. So now we're a little bit more specific. We say we we mean depth sensors and, uh, easy in this case specifically means not making changes to components that process depth images. So this would be, uh, uh, a good quality attribute that you could see in a list. How about adding new depth processing functionality should minimize changes to existing pre-processing components. How about this one? What do you think about this one? I think we could actually have a debate whether this is good or bad. Who thinks this is a good requirement? Okay. Okay. Who thinks this is a bad requirement? Okay. Great. Why do you think it's a it's a bad requirement. What could be improved anyway. The word minimize changes is just so make for different. So like that makes it complicated. Yeah. Well, I argue the opposite. You minimize. You know exactly where you want it to go. You want to. That's right. Yeah. So in quality attributes, we often just kind of try to specify a direction in which you want to optimize, because in most cases we can't get everything right. Uh, so that often trade offs between different quality attributes. And uh, if we are in a space of tradeoffs and we specify, uh, all of our requirements are just kind of binary, then we don't really know what kind of solution we should prefer inside of this space. So having some, um, uh, soft goals, uh, is also good. So, um, if you don't have a specific hard threshold that you need to achieve, it's totally fine for you to, uh, to say, minimize or maximize. Um, and then add some kind of priority in later. Okay. Does this make sense? Do you feel like now you can specify some quality attributes if we if we ask you to, uh, do a homework where you need to specify a lot of different quality attributes, you could do that. Okay, then we will do that. Um. When we need to make design decisions. Um, there's been a lot of research on what a good approach is to do this, um, for software architecture specifically because we have these multiple different requirements that conflict with each other, and we have a lot of different views we need to consider. Um, the processes for this are a little bit more difficult to come up with. And there's been a lot of research, uh, from the Software Engineering Institute at CMU on, uh, Attribute driven Design. There are a couple of books on this, um, that I can and can recommend here. Um, attribute driven design follows this iterative process. So you, um, you don't necessarily want to end up with a perfect architecture. You want to improve an existing architecture. So you select some qualities you attribute to improve. That's your iteration goal. You say, now we want to improve maintainability a little bit. So then we a choose a part of the system that we want to refine, find and sketch a candidate solution and describe the design decisions, um, that we can then make to improve this, require this quality attribute for, for that part of the system. Uh, and then we, uh, of course we by improving maintainability, maybe we have sacrificed a little bit of performance or we have sacrificed a little bit of maintainability or have increased our development cost. Um, so then we need to analyze all of the different quality attributes that are important for this part of the system. Uh, in a, uh, in a next step and then we check, have we actually improved our system or have we just made some change? Uh, and then we iterate if necessary. Um, let's make sense. Questions about attribute driven design. So the goal here is basically to start from a candidate solution and then improve. I think somebody raised a hand here. I'm not sure if this was um. Okay, good. There are different views that you need to, um, think about when you are designing your software architecture. Um, this is a really nice book. Documenting software architectures. Um, may have recommended this, um, during the UML lectures as well. Um, that is specifically about thinking about which views are helpful to support what kinds of analysis. So if you remember, the software architecture is a set of structures, um, uh, and elements and relations between them that help us reason about properties of both. Uh, this basically means we need to think about different perspectives, different views on our architecture, and then analyze them for separable. So class diagrams. You see in, uh, a code view, a module view who has seen entity relationship diagrams before. A notation. Okay. Just very small number of students. Uh, so this is basically a table and this is a relation, and this is an attribute of a table. And you want to have a primary key. You underline it. Um, the data view of the system. And then you have component connector views. Um component connector views are um, um, not modeling the code. Um, so in software architecture, when we talk about a component, we are referring to an independently deployable runtime unit. Um, that is not a piece of code. That is something that can actually execute. It's an executable. Um, so we have a client component, we have a library server component. And then the interface interact with each other via interfaces. Um, so components. Uh, um, uh, this is why we call this the runtime view, because they describe how components interact at runtime. Um, uh, students usually have a hard time seeing the difference between the module view and the component connected view. But the way how you want to think about it is that you are, uh, client and server. They may both use the same. Um, um, let's say they may both be, uh, implemented in JavaScript and then use the same common library. Right. So you can have a, uh, a code library that causes like a, an overloaded term here. You have like a code library that you, you import. And then when you basically deliver the, the software, uh, as part of both of your components, so your module view and your component connector view may not necessarily be the same and may not necessarily be the same. Does that make sense. Okay. And then your behavioral view is describing into action. So you can have sequence diagrams. You can of state machines. Um. Um and then the reason why we uh okay, here's some uh, uh, uh, component views, uh, uh, independently deployable random downtime units. Like processes, a component can be executed. Code in C plus plus cannot be executed. So this is the module if you the module view is what you see in your I.D. The component connected view is what you observe when you run the system. Uh, so components can be executed of a prolonged period of time. It's not just a function that instantly returns and it's not a module. And, uh, it's not just packages of code. Packages of code are not components. Packages of code. Uh, uh, larger modules are not, uh, components. And then we have, uh, different source files that can then get compiled into, uh, a component. And then, um, we often have this kind of like mapping view where we say, uh, these are the modules that go into that component to get a better view of, um, what they actually look like. Okay. Questions about. Yes. Okay. So. If we define. Uh. The component collector view. We basically say every element is an, uh, executable. Um. Um, is an executable process that can run um, and the connections between your elements or relations. Uh, um, a runtime communication is like exchanging messages. Um, um. So this is a this is an executable that's compiled. So after you compile it you executed. It's a component. Um in the in your module view you look at the uh the elements are pieces of code. Right. And then the relations are called imports. Uh, depends on or something like this. Right. So you have different kinds of, uh, relationships between them. And the reason why, um, thinking about the component view is important is because, uh, you could have a library that is just compiled into one client, but you could also have a library that's then included in both of the components. Uh, so this is why you don't necessarily have an isomorphism isomorphic view between the two. Okay. Other questions. No questions. Okay. That's good. And then the reason why we think about these different views is because they help us answer different questions. So software architecture elements and relations, um, and the property you help us reason about properties. So we model these views so that we can reason about certain properties of the system. The module view helps us reason about code level design decisions. Uh, about maintainability. Changeability. Right. This is this is what the module view is good for. The module through helps us reason about, for example, information hiding. How well have we implement information hiding in something we can see in the in the module view. Because we see these are the this is the modularization. This is the interface between them. Right. And then the data view helps us structuring our database and tables. Uh you know this is this mainly just has the um, uh, the purpose of reasoning about how we structure our data. And if we've modeled all of our data elements correctly and then the runtime view my opinion. I guess I'm a little bit biased because my PhD thesis was on automatically inferring component connect views from code. Uh, it's useful for reasoning about inter component method flow and deployment. So um systems in which this is really, really useful are for example robotic systems. So in robotic systems you have a lot of different components that, uh, have different responsibility. So you have one component that processes some data and then it's publishing other data. Uh, that is then consumed by another component. And you want to identify how do these components talk to each other at runtime. So you want to deploy your system and you have multiple, let's say multiple component instances of the same component type that are talking to each other. And then you want to reason about the flow of messages in the system. Um, have do you have any like, uh, properties about, um, a component not being connected to, um, a real data source, for example. So you can, you can use the component connector, you to find a lot of bugs that can result from the incorrect composition of software components. And then your behavior view is useful to reason about bottlenecks, uh, messaging protocols and complex interactions. So, um, uh, you can you can also find bugs in your, uh, component state machines. Uh, you can also, uh, reason about, um. Whether you can achieve your performance properties. We can also reason about, uh, where, uh, where the bottlenecks in your system are that some components that have a much higher load than others. Um, and where would we need to optimize? Where would we need to spend the most time optimizing for performance? That's kind of what your what the, um, behavioral view tells you. Uh, and this is why you want to have, um, multiple views of the system. If you just model the code view, you will not necessarily be able to reason about these other properties. Uh, yeah. This makes sense. Because I feel like if anyone else argues. So the interactions are static interactions. This is. This is for example this component talks to that component. Right. So we are we are not necessarily saying in which order things are happening, but we are just saying they have communication. They have established a communication channel. So um, if you let's say think about, um, a graph of this class of students who, uh, sometimes talk to each other, that would be a component connector view. You see different students, then they sometimes talk to each other, but you don't necessarily uh, from that view, you can tell, um, how information is flowing. Maybe there's one student who loves to, um, um, uh, you know, uh, tell you all the news and then this kind of information flow kind of going through the graph and in a specific direction, you can really tell this from a component connected view. You don't know who, like, let's say, initiates, uh, communication or something like this. Um, you just see, uh, what channels are, uh, in existence. Um. And this. This also means that component Kinect views themselves on their own. Um, can't really tell you. For example. Okay, let me maybe show you a good example. Um, so if you have a component connected view like this, um. We don't know if, uh. Let's call this b c. This is a1 and this is a2. If b receives a message from A1. Does this mean it sends a message to see if B receives the message from A2? Does it mean it sends a message to C like we don't know. Just from this graph, we just know that B receives messages from a1 and A2 and then sends messages to C, but we don't know if they are somehow causally linked or whatever. Uh. Other questions. Okay. The reason why we care about software architecture, um, is to develop an intuition of what are common patterns that help us promote certain quality attributes. Um, so you have learned design patterns in this class already. Architectural styles are basically design patterns on an architectural scale. So design patterns describe patterns between classes and objects. Uh, architectural styles describe kind of design patterns at the scale of architecture. Uh, we can think of an architectural style as the dominant, uh, shape of our system. Um, and, uh, there are a couple of architectural styles, um, that you may have heard of. We're sort of a pipes and filters architecture. Okay. Do you know an example of a pipes and filters architecture? No. Okay. Who knows? An okay. Pipes and filters architecture. Okay. I think we will go through them in more detail. Okay. Pipes and filters. Architecture. Publish. Subscribe. Uh, if you if you're working with, um, um, IoT systems or you're working with robotic systems, you will see a lot of popular subscribe styles. And then the most common one, you you are familiar with this, uh, call return styles, where you have, um, a style, one where elements make calls to each other and then, yeah, they're similar to design patterns, but more abstract because they do not, uh, require a particular programing language paradigm. So remember a design pattern, um, the design pennants. We've learned the Gang of Four design patterns, all object oriented design patterns. So they assume that you are implementing your systems in an object oriented programing language. Architectural styles do not assume any particular programing language paradigm, which means the ideas on architectural styles translate to literally any programing language that can be used to build a system that, um, exists of multiple components and a different order module styles, and they also component connect the styles. Uh, the pipes and filters architecture is a uh, component connector style. So we think about elements and relations in the view of component connectors. It's a very common big data analytics or multimedia processing uh system. So when you you describe your systems, um, uh, in um, elements that, um, process data and streams between them, the reason why pipes and filters architectures are so useful is because they define very small interfaces. So for example, if you have an image processing system that's the most common example of a pipes and filter system. So you have um, different image filters that take some images, define an operation on this image, and then you connect them using pipes. Um, can you now think of a different example of a pipes and filter system? Yes. You smart. What? I don't think. Not necessarily. So pipes and filters architectures are, um. So the point of pipes and filters architectures is that is that all of these different, um, filters or components that process streams, they all use the same interface, they all use the same type of stream. So for example, here they are two depicts the graphics. Can you think of a pipes and filters architecture that uses text streams? Have you learned a pipes and filters architecture? We have components that take text streams, produce text streams, and you can kind of combine them in any way. Yes. Um, like, uh, after this is like modular. It's called DSP, which does it. It's like I've never heard of this. It does. Like basically you split up a pipeline of work into small modules. Okay. It's like, yeah, it's just like text input output, input output. And then just like to build a pipeline around it. Oh okay. Sure. Yeah. That sounds that sounds good. Any other ideas? Yeah. Yeah, yeah. If you have multiple, um, you know, multiple models that kind of combine together like something like a genetic system or something like this. I was thinking of, uh, Unix tools and I'm pretty sure. And 35, like, you learned a lot of shell scripting. Um, uh, all shell scripts are pipes and filters architectures. They all take text streams and then produce new text streams. And you can kind of the whole point of these Unix systems is that you can combine them in many different ways. Okay. So yeah, there's results and loose coupling because every filter can be connected to any other filter. And then each filter there's only one thing. This one increases brightness and this one increases brightness as one reduces noise. This one detects edges. This one is a coloring. So we we, uh, what kind of properties would you expect from a, um, pipes and filters architecture? What are the quality attributes that are promoted okay, I think let me see. Okay, good. Awesome. Yeah. So the the elements are filters that are components that read and process data from input streams. And then pipes are the relations between them. They are connectors that buffer data from a stream and preserve the order of data. You have the relation of attaches which connects an input to an output the constraint. So we have. Yes. Question. So you're getting like, what is like a. Like I don't feel hmhm. And then they are all the same. And there is like a pipe, just like a collection. No no, no. A pipe is not a collection of filter, a collection of filters. A pipe is, uh. So. And we think of those as filters. The pipe is what connects them. So if you think of a data stream that takes images, buffets them, and then forwards them to another component. That's a pipe. That's a pipe. If you think of a of a Unix pipe, the unique pipe is a pipe. It takes text stream. It buffers the text stream and then forwards through the input port of another component. Great question. Um, okay. The the whole point of architectural styles. So we define elements and relations. And then we define constrains on these elements and relations. And the the reason why we define these constraints is because these constraints give us power. Without these constraints we wouldn't be able to make predictions. So here we are saying we want to have strict independence. Filters must not share state or memory with other filters and can only interact with pipes. I can also agnosticism. A filter must not know the identity of its upstream or downstream neighbor. This basically means that, uh, in an image processing pipeline, any filter should not assume that there is a noise reduction filter before it, or this edge detection filter before it. Um. Acyclic pathways a pipes and filters architecture directs data from a stream source to a data sink. That basically just means that, you know, if you have actual cycles in your, in your, uh, filters, that that would not be considered a, uh, pipes and filters architecture. Yes. Question. Like you said. Like don't know about stuff before and after, but like in the broader like architecture, you still need to have a sequence of the right filters, right? That's right. Okay. So um, great question. I love this question. Okay. So we have we have our components. We have our code that is written. And then at some point we um, we decide we want to connect this component with another component. But the Pipes and Filters architecture says that the modules that compile into these filters should not make assumptions about the order. So this is kind of like information hiding on the pipes and filters architecture. That makes sense. Like you want to hide the decision how they are connected from the individual components. Um. Does this make sense? That makes sense, I guess I just guess that my example is wrong. Okay. Oh, I see okay. Okay. Um, and, uh, because we create these constraints, we can then make predictions about the quality attributes from this, from these systems. If somebody sticks to these constraints, they then, uh, promote different qualities. What what quality attributes would be promoted by a style that has these elements in relations and these constraints. If we follow these rules, what gains do we get in terms of quality of attributes? What do you think? Yes, I have, first of all. Mhm. I think that's kind of amazing. I think Acer also guarantees like. It guarantees, right? You are not going to take forever. Um, extensibility. What besides extensibility may be supported by that, by that architectural style. Yes. I think times are very. Modifiable the pipes. Yeah. Like so if there's like system five you want changes that you can like. Oh or the like um, the connections between. Yeah okay. That's okay. I thought you were thinking with the implementation of the pipes. And I want to disagree with that because, uh, the implementation of your buffer is usually not very changeable, but, uh, changing the connections, basically making changes in the component connector for you. That is very easy because they all use the same, um, data format, right? Um. It makes pipes. More properties result from this. Uh, extensibility modifier ability. And I think the most interesting one is reusability. If we define our filters in a way that they don't assume where the data comes from, and they all do one thing and they all use the same interface, well, that means they're incredibly reusable, right? The fewer assumptions they make, the more context they will be reusable in. And, um, this kind of follows, uh, quite directly from the strict into independence, right? The more dependencies they have, uh, and the more non agnostic they are, um, the less reusable they are, um, inhibited quality attributes here often and uh, include, uh, interactivity and usability because it's really hard for you to get user events into, let's say like a pipes and filters architecture if you have if you need to respond to user events, it's often quite hard to implement this using pipes and filters because you can't really, uh, uh, have incremental display updates or complex control strategies that are usually worked well. Yes. It's also really testable because you can test each filter. Yes. Yeah. So if you this is really nice. So we often have synergies between quality attributes. If you have reusability extensibility and modify ability testability is usually among them as well. Uh because this often means you have high modularity. And high modularity often means you have more testability as well. Yes. For the reusability of the filters, do you mean like once I defined, uh, data and I could use it in several. Exactly. So if you think of, uh, the brightness filter or the noise reduction filter, you can reuse it in many different applications. If you think of the grep command, the grep command is super reuse. Always use grep this week. Okay. See? Super reusable because it uses the pipes and filters architecture, doesn't assume where the data comes from. So you can reuse grab a lot. Um, and, um. Yeah. So the way how David Garland usually motivates that constrains give you power is by this really nice example. I've not actually checked if this is true at UCLA, but at CMU and most buildings, uh, when you have, uh, bathrooms on a floor, the left one is usually for men and the right one is for the women. Um, so you impose this constraint on the architect that you have to put male left and female right. Uh, this was before they introduced, um, uh, non-binary bathrooms. They were then kind of breaking this architectural style a little bit. But because you have this constraint, it means that it's easier for you to navigate this because you're used to going either to the left or the right one. And you don't have to always look around. Where do I have to go? Uh, because you have introduced this constraint on your architecture, you make it easier for people to navigate. Um, so constraints create power. This is the whole insight behind architectural styles. Um. Um, you also have throughput, uh, performance quality attributes. So, um, you because you can independently deploy them on separate processors, you can literally run them in parallel. So this is, uh, happening in all kinds of image processing pipelines that they, they run on different kind of GPU cores. Uh, you kind of have this in Unix pipes as well. They can also run physically in parallel. And, um, you improve throughput, but you often inhibit latency. Why do you inhibit latency? Why is latency most likely inhibited by a pipes and filter style? Anybody have an idea? Yeah. Wait for you. Go. Um. It seems like a model is, uh, your model. You're limited by, like, how long? The pipe itself, but that you always have to wait for, right? No matter how you implement your architecture, you always have to, you know, wait for all of the processing to finish. Well. Uh. Elliot. Everything's just in a huge filter. Like internally. Hello. And most. Elmo. Mhm. But if you're like separating at two different stages you have to like compress it uncompressed. And they really like each stage when they're. Yes. Yes. So the maybe two to kind of phrase your answer a bit differently. We have to decode and encode all the data because they all use the same format in the pipe. Right. So if we represent all of our data as text streams, that means all of our programs have to translate the data into text streams. If we represent all of our images as bitmaps of red, green, blue, then even if we represent our, uh, some of our filters in different color channels, maybe we use, um, Excel or we use lab, uh, we have to translate them into the format that is used to be of the unified pipe format. And we add this additional overhead for translating our data into the format that is used in the pipe. Any questions about pipes and filters? Okay. Pipes and filters. Um, one of the oldest styles. Um, the layered style. Um, as a module style, this is really important. So we've had a component connect to style. Um, uh, in pipes and filters and pipes and filters, the elements are components, and the relations between them are connected in a, uh, module view and a module style. Each of the different elements are modules in the connections that like the pins relations, uh, users calls. Uh, so now we are in a completely different world. We're in a completely different world, and we're in the world of modules, not in the world of components. So now we are looking at code. Um, and when we think of Tcpip, we can think of this as a layered style, obviously. Um, so we have the link layer, the internet layer, the transport layer, the uh, application layer in a layered style. We have multiple, um, uh, we split modules into kind of different levels of responsibilities, and then we put code in a way where only higher level modules can call lower level modules, but not the other way around. That's the whole point of a layered module that we have, uh, called only going down cause and not going up. Who remembers another layered style that you may have seen in a different class? Architecture where you have different kinds of layers? Yes. There also another style that operating systems sometimes use. I think the layer style of operating systems has been more traditional in sort of a micro microkernel architecture. Okay. Okay, maybe, maybe operating systems doesn't teach a microkernel. Uh, but yes. So we have our hardware abstraction layer. Uh, that is has the responsibility of uh, of, um. Abstracting away um, details on how to use the hardware. And then on top we add memory management. Then we add input output file management and user interface. So each of the layers has one specific responsibility. And we can kind of swap them out um um interchangeably. So a layer is a kind of module that cohesively groups functionality at a particular level of abstraction. The relationship between them is just allowed to use. And in the strict um, layer style, every piece of software is allocated to exactly one layer, and each layer is allowed to only use modules either in the same layer or in the layer directly below. So we do not allow a call from layer four directly down to layer one. We only allow layer N to call layer N minus one. Only the direct below layer um, and the at least two layers of course. Um. What benefit do we gain by having this strict layout style where we only allow calls to go to the directly below? Uh, layer, not a bridging layers. What benefit do we game? Yes, like cheat ability. It is. Right. So we have we have fewer dependencies. If we if we depend on the other layer below, we, we have more dependencies, which then, uh, creates an architecture that's less likely to change. But what benefit would we gain by allowing layer bridging? What benefit may we gain? Yes. Did you say performance engineer? Oh. Uh, I was asking for that. For the benefit of lay a bridging, not of non-linear bridging. Uh, of leveraging. Yes. Uh, I don't have information. Hiding information. Hiding layer bridging. How? These. Up there you can build up. Mhm. Okay. So so yes. All layout styles have like an information hiding a benefit. Okay. Let's let's first talk about the properties of uh of layout styles and in general. And then we'll talk about layout bridging afterwards. This is a bit easier okay. What a what a advantages of layout style. So we've talked about information hiding. What's another one. Mhm. Uh but they are rushing to me. Leveraging would be the opposite. Um but let's talk about just this, this style. So uh, first so what are, what are properties of this style of the strict layer, strict dependency constraints. Okay. Talk to a neighbor. 30s. I love. Okay. What do you think? What are the properties that are promoted by this style? By the strict layout. Style? Yes. This is not. Interpretability interpreted to. Okay, so all you have to worry about is that if you are below the. The API of your day or so is like, uh, if you, for example, um, um, like just above the IP there, all you have to worry about is the IP layer and your application there. You don't have to worry about the internal layer. You don't have to worry about how the physical. Um, data. Maps are being, like, decoded. That makes sense. I wouldn't say that this is generally a direct implication of the style. This is maybe something that often happens in layered systems, but I don't think it necessarily directly follows from the style itself. Um, yes. I do not like. You optimize at each layer, and then you don't have to do more work with each layer just focuses on its own. Like like like kind of like there's a kind of separation of concerns, right? Sure. Okay. What qualities are inhibited by this style? Things that we lose by using this style? Yes. It's slow. Why is it slower? Exactly, exactly. We inhibit performance. So we have to call through every single layer. And all of the layers have to kind of pack and unpack data. Uh, uh, add things to the stack. Um, so, um, yeah. So we have reusability again. Layers can be reused. So the lowest layers make fewer assumptions is kind of what Elliott wanted to say. Uh uh. Reusability modify ability layers can be replaced without affecting the, the the other aspects of the system. That's the whole point why operating systems are structured this way, that you can replace the hardware abstraction layer with a different hardware abstraction layer. Right. And then the rest of your system is working, uh, on the, on the different hardware. And this often leads to portability because you isolate platform specific hardware or OS specific dependencies in the bottommost layers and then, yeah, performance. So your request is a forced to traverse multiple intermediate layers, even though it's maybe not necessarily necessary. And then layer bridging is the, uh, other style that allows you to do this. Um, uh, so that permits skipping the layer, uh, to increase performance while modify it while sacrificing some modify ability. Yes. But also. If the bottom layer breaks down, then the whole thing. Availability. Okay, this is a great point because this is a module style. This is a module style. So this is this is the view of the architecture before we compile it. This means the bottom layer and the top layer are not independently available or unavailable. So availability is not impacted by layout styles. They are only impacted by layered styles. If our Component Connect architecture is also a layered style. Uh, but in a, um, um. This is why it's really important for you to differentiate the the module view from the component connector view. The module view does not allow you to make any, uh, claims about availability because you're looking at the system before you compile it. Um, and uh, availability is often judged by the component connector architecture or by, uh, some dynamic views. Um, so, um, uh, this is why when we talk about layouts, uh, when we talk about module styles, uh, we only can make claims about, uh, properties that can be accessed on a module view. And availability is not one of them. Okay. Any other thoughts or questions on the layout style? Yes. Yes. No. Also. That's right. Well. While the performance bottleneck of making calls that that we can see, that we can see but we can't see, uh, we can't. For example, when we think of bottlenecks, we usually say this there's one component that processes streams from all different sources like that we wouldn't see in the module view, so that that we wouldn't see in a layered style. Um, but um, yeah. So different kind of performance properties, another kind of bottlenecks can be, can be assessed there. Okay. Other questions. Cool. Publish, subscribe. Um, one of my favorites. Like, I think all of them are cool, but let's, uh, publish subscribe is super fun. Um, so this is code from the robot operating system, the most commonly used framework and robotic systems. And that's a publish subscribe architecture and a publish subscribe architecture. This is very similar to the observer design pattern. We have some components that produce data. And we have some components and that consume data. And then we have an end to end relationship between publishers and subscribers. But introducing a topic that's kind of like a named channel, where we can say these components are, uh, producing data of the topic kind, and then our subscribers have a message queue that subscribes to this channel that wants to be notified whenever data has been published to that topic. And, um, the main difference here is that an observer design pattern, we think about object oriented programing languages and, uh, popular subscribe systems that don't necessarily have to be object oriented. And they can be end to end. They can be end to end. Okay. Why? This is not. Okay. Interesting. So the elements we have publishers that are components that produce events, subscribe us that are components that register to receive updates on events. And then topics are kind of like you can think of them like the pipes, right? They are the infrastructure that forwards events from the publishers to the subscribers and then the relations are subscribes to. So a subscriber subscribes to a channel, publishes to a publisher, sends events to a topic. The constraints are publisher ignorance. Publishers must not rely on the presence or identity of subscribers. So if you need your data to be processed, that is not a strict publish subscribe style. If the publisher depends on if the system functionality depends on the the publisher having some subscriber that meets it, that would not follow the strict um publish subscribe style subscriber ignorance. Subscribers must not rely on the identity of publishers. They don't care where the data comes from, if they care about where the data comes from, from which specific publisher. We wouldn't consider a strict publish subscribe style. One way propagation information only flows, uh, from publishers to subscribers, and this often means we don't have any other exchange of data besides publish, subscribe and then asynchronous. Okay, the send us to non block. Um and what. Advantages and disadvantages do we get from the public subscribe style as compared to what we kind of call direct communication. So in direct communication we kind of hardcode the component we make a call to. Instead of going through this topic, we say this publisher is directly sending data to another subscriber. Okay. Talked about a talk about this with you are if enable. Yes. Who has an answer with question this question. Right? No. Didn't somebody say professor? Oh, yeah. Answer would be industrial tax. No. Which one is less complex? Publish. Subscribe. How so? Uh, because otherwise, like every two publisher subscriber pair would have to consult with. It will be hard to. If that makes sense. Yes, exactly. It decouples. Do you have more flexibility of, uh, changing connections? Yes. When? To do what? Direct communication. Be simpler and more like. Easy because there's no like intermediate, right? It's it's more obvious what kind of communication is happening. Yes. I mean like. Direct communication is more like a call. Like. Compared to like pub sub where like you could upload it to like a topic and when the subscriber wants to they can access the data versus like you have to make sure that the subscriber is ready to receive. Sure. Okay. What are advantages of. Yeah. Question does a publishers like asynchronously update. Yes. Yeah, perhaps a pub. Sub systems are always asynchronous. Okay. Other thoughts? Okay. Um, yeah. So probably subscribe has more extensibility. It's much easier for us to add more publishers and add more subscribers because nobody knows that they exist, right? If we think of an IoT system and we have a new temperature sensor, we just add a new publisher for the temperature sensor. If we have a, um, a news processing system and we have a new, um, um, um, uh, component that wants to receive news updates, uh, then we just add a new subscriber, uh, question. Yes. This. With scalability. Do you mean we have more instances of publishers and subscribers? I think that makes sense. I think that makes sense. Um, yeah, I think that makes sense. Um, yeah. So basically adding a different, um, instance of the same type that is kind of extensibility. But um. I guess in a variant of, uh, you can think of variants of public subscribe that are specifically supported to load balance as well. Right? Like, like publisher Instagram doesn't really address concerns of load balancing. And when you want to think about scalability, load balancing is always kind of a really important concern. So it doesn't it doesn't get you through through all of scalability. But it helps you a little bit. Okay. Direct communication has a little bit more robustness. Uh, so the sender can detect if the listener is not available. Right. They can have a fallback solution if the sender needs the information to be processed. Let's say this is a, uh, as this, uh, if you think about cars, for example. Right. You may have a, um, a break where somebody, you know, pushes the brake, uh, you want the car to stop, right? If nobody is listening to the brake event, your code doesn't work. Um, if you want to design your system to be robust, uh, to make sure that the brakes somehow notify somebody. If if nobody can listen to the brake event, you can't use a pub subsystem. Um, surprisingly, a lot of cars actually use pub sub systems, uh, which also has a different disadvantage. Uh, that's not actually up here. Um, there has been a really interesting bug in Toyota systems, um, I think ten years ago where because all of the, uh, components in the car, uh, use the same data bus, if you would, uh, play a CD and, uh, and the music player that has malicious events that sound like break events, for example, that mimic the structure of break events, playing this music in the radio, uh, can actually make the car stop that. There has been an actual, like, bug, um, where people could maliciously inject sound into the system and then kind of remote brake systems. So this this is why it's really important for you to think about these quality attribute trade offs of the architectural styles you're picking because, you know, you can literally kill people if you use the wrong architectural style. That can happen. Avoid that. Um, yeah. Also understandability is higher. Most direct communication with pops up because you don't really know, um, which component is receiving, uh, this data. It's really hard for you to think about the flow in the data unless you have an actual life component connector architecture. Um, one of my undergraduates is working on, um, identifying like inferring component connector models, uh, for microservice architecture so that you can understand those systems, uh, more effectively. Um, so there are some tools support that can help you. Uh, so many of these downsides can be mitigated with the right kind of tool support, right or with the right kind of modeling approach or the right kind of quality assurance process. Uh, but you need to be aware that these downsides exist, and then you need to plan for them. Um, which is why, um, it really makes sense to, uh, study these architectural styles, kind of like design patterns. Uh, here is a real world bug, um, that, uh, in my PhD thesis I found in Ottawa. AI so Ottawa I, um, is the, um, largest framework, most common open source framework, uh, for self-driving cars. And that uses this popular subscribe style. Well, um, when you connect components, uh, you make the call to create a publisher and subscriber with a string. So each topic is just a string name. And, um, sometimes people change the names of the topics to better reflect their, their new styles. And then, uh, if this has happened, where they change the name of the line class, topic to line topic, but they made this change inconsistently. So some of the components, uh, where using the new, uh, topic and then some other components by subscribing to the previous topic. And these kinds of bugs are incredibly hard to find because, uh, you need to dynamically infer what these, uh, components are listening to, and many of them are just kind of silently failing that. Like, I don't receive any data, but then they don't notify you and that they do not receive data and then just silently failing components. And then in cases in which the execution path is only executed in, uh, emergency or exceptional situations, you also can really test this very well. So testability is often a little bit of an issue with pub sub systems because they are also highly, highly asynchronous. Um, so when you are using frameworks or libraries, uh, like the robotics operating system, that is. Giving you publish subscribe styles or um. Um. Kafka is another example of the publish subscribe style. When you use these libraries or frameworks, they often impose a architectural style on your data. And then you have to a know that this is the architectural style and then be know about the trade off that comes with, um, the decision. So by using these frameworks, uh, you are um, um, you are inheriting the qualitative trade offs made by, uh, the architectural styles imposed by the framework. Um. Robert robot operating. Yeah mQTT. Also another really common middleware for um publish subscribe. Apache Kafka, Apache Kafka. Uh, there's a lot of different frameworks and libraries that use this publish subscribe style. And by by studying this you then know what kind of culture which you are inheriting. Okay, I think we have to do tactics on Tuesday because we have reached the end of the lecture. We move to the exit ticket. Um. And the password. That's what I have to tell you. Huh? Played a little bit of a joke here. And of course, please don't forward this to other people. I hope I don't have to say this anymore. Yeah. I know that this is not legal in the US. This is not legal in the US.