[Auto-generated transcript. Edits may have been applied for clarity.] Uh. And. How is everyone doing on a rainy day? Good. Yeah. Have fewer people. Which I guess happens in rainy weather. Okay. How is the project going? Everyone making good progress. Any challenges? No progress. You should make progress on the project. Um, this is your capstone. This is your opportunity to show to the world and to yourself, and to your parents and to your teammates that you've learned amazing things in your, um. In your undergrad time here. Okay, I think I have to replace the batteries. Oh, yeah. I just that's not HDMI. Okay. Put this on first. Okay. Yeah, I'd rather do this now than in the middle of the lecture. Okay. Today we are going to talk about design patterns just like Thursday. But we are going to talk about different design patterns and also a few general principles related to how do you use design patterns. Um. Did I somehow lose my clicker? Oh, no. Okay. This. Okay, let's recap the design principles. Design patterns that we've covered last week. So we've covered the observer. What is the observer design pattern. Who remembers what the observer design pattern does. The observer design pattern. I guess give a big candy for this one. Yes. Observer like once the subject has an update, all of the children have updates. And how do we implement this? What's the kind of structure and behavior that makes this work? It's like a push. Yeah. So we we have a list of observers that are stored in the subject. And then observers can register in the subject, and they then get notified when the subject is changing. How about the strategy design pattern. What is the strategy design pattern. Remembers the strategy design pattern. Yes, I like. Over inheritance. Loosely coupled inherited features. That's right. So you have some behavioral variation. You have different kind of algorithms, a different kind of behavior. And um, instead of having a lot of subclasses of your class that has this behavior variation, you delegate it to a specific, you know, a strategy interface that then has multiple implementations of this behavior. And then the mediator also has the mediator design pattern. Who remembers the mediator design pattern. Yes. That's like. You design a central command hub that manages all of the inter class dependencies so that they're not communicating with each other in a gigantic web? That's right. You basically put the, uh, collaborations between objects into a uh, uh, mediator object that is, uh, then treating all of the other, uh, objects or components in your system as reusable and individual. Okay. Any questions about the design patterns we've covered last week? Okay. Today we are going to talk about Creational design patterns. Uh creational. Design patterns are quite different from the, um, behavioral design patterns we've seen last week. Um, and yeah, I did want to make a note, uh, that for the midterm, everything will be in Java. So if you're not familiar with Java yet, I know that some versions of 131 teach Java, but some other versions of 131 don't teach it. Um, which maybe we should somehow unify at some point. So if you've not learned Java yet, uh, I would recommend you to, uh, do a Java tutorial that's specifically designed for you because, uh, connected to Python and to C plus plus. And it also shows you, uh, UML class and sequence diagrams at the same time. So you can practice all of these together. Okay. So if we kept the observer, if we kept the mediator, we have recapped the strategy. Now let's talk about the factory method pattern. So there are a lot of different design patterns that all help you with the creation of objects. The creation of objects is sometimes quite tricky. Let's look at this example. So let's say we have a lot of different kind of ducks. You remember from last last week. We have the mallard duck. We have the decoy talk. We have the robot duck. And now we want to create different kind of ducks depending on our use case. What challenge might arise from code that is written like this? We have a lot of influences that would create different objects in the future. So we in a software engineering class, we don't just want to write code that works now. We want to write code that's going to be easy to change and it's going to be easy to maintain. It's going to be flexible in the future. What could go wrong or what? What is bad about this design? Talk to your neighbor. Okay. What do you think? Any ideas? What's wrong with this code? What challenges might might occur in the future? Yes. You like more. Not only extremely long, but because. It's. I've got to check them all procedurally. That's right. Yes. Yeah. So whenever we add a new type of duck and, you know, the biologists will tell you there are so many ducks and maybe they'll discover and create new ducks in the future. Um, so, uh, yeah, this will, uh, have a lot of changes that I work right at every single place where we create these ducks. Um, let's look at another example. Now we want to bake some pizza. Today we're going to become pizza bakers. Uh, you have exactly the same situation here. Depending on whether the customer orders a cheese pizza or a Greek pizza or a pepperoni pizza, we then create a cheese pizza or a Greek pizza or a pepperoni pizza. And then after we have created this, we go through the same different kinds of steps. Um, so we have some part here, uh, that is, uh, that varies and some part that changes. Uh, so if the pizza, uh, bakery decides to offer a new, different kind of pizza, this has to change while this remains the same. So if mixed. Code that changes together with code that does not change together. Uh, so this part varies. This part remains the same for these kinds of changes. Um, and that's very bad because whenever somebody wants to add a new, different kind of pizza, they have to also kind of understand what this code does because, you know, it's in the same method. And how can you make a change in a, in a method without understanding the whole method? You should not do that. So you should structure your code in a way that people, um, only need to understand the minimum amount of logic to effectively make this change, uh, and remove all of the other kinds of distractions that could take up the cognitive load or that could confuse them. And again, if it's if it's confusing a human, it's probably confusing in a large language model as well. So all of these principles that are limiting the cognitive load on a human also limit the token and cognitive load on a model as well. So if you structure your code this way, uh, it's going to be much harder for a model to understand this because to somehow it has to make sense of this code and then load this all into context and whatever. So we don't want this. Uh, what could we do instead? What could we do instead? Yes, we could create a. It's taken a hmhm. Interesting. So this would be a constructor. On which class? On pizza. Yeah. Interesting. You've created. That would be for those who. That's an interesting design. Who could spot a potential challenge or potential flaw in this design? Where are we then? Uh, half the pizza class know about, uh, how to create its subclasses. What might be an issue or a challenge with that kind of design? Hmm. That's right. So we have now exposed the design decision what kinds of subclasses the class has to the superclass itself. So when we create objects we want to make sure that our super classes are as reusable as possible so that they can be reused in contexts where these special subclasses don't exist. Um, so you don't you want your super classes to be as general as possible so that you can reuse them in multiple places? Yes. We're. We're getting closer. We're getting closer. Okay. But the first insight here is that we should not have all of these constructors in the pizza class. So instead of putting it in the pizza class, why don't we just, you know, create another class, right? Like a pizza factory class where we put all of these constructors. This is the simple factory, uh, pattern, basically. And I wouldn't call it the pattern, but, um. Yeah. So you create a class, uh, that we call the simple Pizza Factory. It's a separate class. It's not the pizza class. So the the pizza class can still be compiled without knowing about the subclasses. We don't have any cyclic dependencies. The other issue with the, um, super class knowing about it subclass is that you have cyclic dependency. So then you can compile any of them individually, which uh is also mean. So you can test them individually. Uh, so now we don't have any cyclic dependencies anymore. Uh, and then we have uh, uh, this decision being made inside of the simple pizza factory. So if it's a cheese pizza, we create a cheese pizza. If it's if the user wants pepperoni, we create a pepperoni pizza. If the user wants clam, we create a clam pizza. And if the user owns a veggie pizza, then we create a medium special pizza. Um. And whenever we want to add a new type of pizza, we just add it to, uh, this separate method. And then the pizza class doesn't know about and that our clients don't know about what kinds of decisions are there. And then we can use this, uh, create pizza anywhere. We create a pizza. So now we have hidden the decision of what are all of the different kinds of pizzas and how are they created inside of this simple pizza factory. So this one is now implementing the design decision of how to map these strings to pizzas. And what kind of pizzas exist. This makes sense. Yes. That's right. If we want to add a new, different kind of pizza, now we have to add a new if else statement. That's not that's not great. Right. So maybe we want to have a slightly more, um, flexible, uh, design without um, without that many if elses. And that that's kind of leading us to the, the other design, uh, patterns. So. Oops. Now I don't want. Yeah, I guess we'll just have to. Oops. Um. Go back. Okay. Nice. Um. Yeah. We'll get. We'll get to. We'll remove the if statements. Uh, soon as well. Okay. Now we can now move towards the factory method pattern that is, uh. Now building different kinds of pizza based on, let's say, different locations. So let's say we have different locations in our amazing pizza factory, um, corporation that then decide how to produce pizza in separately different what kind of ingredients to use in a separate way. So we have a Chicago pizza factory. Um. That is a subtype of the simple pizza factory. Uh, and then we, uh, call create on our subtype of the simple pizza factory. Um, so here, our sample pizza factory is used this way. We create a new simple pizza factory, and then we have a pizza store that takes this pizza factory. Uh, and then on the store, we just order a pizza. And then inside of our pizza store, we have some kind of order pizza method that then calls create pizza on our simple pizza factory. So now our pizza store doesn't know, uh, anything about how to create all of these different kind of pizzas. Uh, it just knows that it has some pizza factory that hides this decision, and then it just returns. Um, this, uh, cheese pizza is the, uh, attribute of the cheese. And then the pizza, uh, store just takes the result and then prepares it and bakes it and cuts it and puts it in boxes. Um, so now our pizza store is deciding what should happen with the pizza after we've created the object. That's a decision that's hidden inside of the pizza store. And our simple factory has, uh, modularized the decision has hidden the decision of what? You know, all kinds of different, uh, pizzas exist. So our, uh, simple pizza factory then looks like this. So we have a pizza store that does not know about the different kinds of pizza. Um, and we have a simple pizza factory that knows all of these different kinds of pizza, uh, and then creates them. So we have this, uh, object structure where our pizza store has a reference to the simple pizza factory. The simple pizza factory knows about, um, all of these, but it basically just creates these objects. Okay? Yes. Um. That's right. Yes. So this is a great point. So software design is not about, um, changing the behavior or changing the functionality of what's actually happening. So if you execute this code is that it does exactly the same thing as the original code. It still goes to exactly the same if else statements. Uh, the only thing that has changed. And so we have um, um, put the design decision of what different kinds of pizza exist and how do we create, um, different pizzas based on the order string inside of the simple pizza factory? So this design decision, this is hidden in this module from all of the other modules. Uh, so we've just restructured the code in a way that, uh, minimizes the cognitive load of people who look at the code and try to identify where do they have to make the change, as there's a new type of pizza that's been supported in your in your factory. Uh, you basically in your pizza store. So let's say a store, not factory because factory is now kind of overloaded. And so you, you have just split the code into separate pieces, and you have you have replaced the very clear code that has all of the behavior very visible to the developer with code that hides this behavior behind layer of indirection. And you'll see this a lot in all of these different design patterns. The way we take code that gives away all of the details. And it's clear to understand by somebody who looks at all of the code. And we've we've now moved code into separate classes and separate objects. Um, so that to understand the full complexity of the system, we now have to look into more different places. So to get a full understanding of the system, we've actually made it a bit harder for developers, but we have made it easier to find the code that implements this to the civic thing, and focuses the attention of the developer just on the code that needs to be understood to make a specific change. So that's the only difference between the previous design and this design. Okay. This is answer your question. Okay. Um, and yeah, so this is not this is not, um, better in every single case. Uh, this is why I describe this for the use case of understanding the entire system. This is actually much, uh, more cognitive load on on the developers. So this is why I'm making the decision to use these design patterns is not always, uh, a good one. Uh, so in some cases, you might not actually want to use these design patterns because, um, you will not add more pizza or you, you feel like, um, to understand what did what is required to make this change. You also still have to understand all of the steps of preparation of pizza. So you're not you're not actually gaining any benefit by putting them in separate places. They still change for the same reason or they still, um, implement the same design decision or they have some dependency. If there's a lot of dependency and then don't put them separate, don't put them separate. Um, so this this is why this is why even, uh, in 2030, you will probably still have a job, because this still requires a lot of creativity in human understanding of the domain that AI models currently don't don't have. Um, but yeah, the only thing that has changed here is the location of the code. That's the only thing that has changed. Um. Okay, now let's look at a slightly more. Um, complex case. So now we are moving into even more flexible systems. So what if the bake method is now dependent on the type of pizza? Right. So previously all pizza was baked exactly the same way. So maybe the Chicago pizza requires a longer bake time due to some thicker crust. Uh, or as long as that Chicago pizza, uh, uh, is set at the right temperature or time to bake. Like they want to. They want to change that. So some different locations of our pizza store. We have to make this decision separately. Or the cut method depends on the type of pizza. Can you think of a design? That allows us to support these changes in an easier way. Again, all of these changes would be possible in all of these designs, but how can we make it easier for developers to make these changes? Any ideas? Talk to you in about. Okay. Any ideas? Um, I'm not really saying that. No. Uh, now I'm. I'm saying that there are different locations where we make pizza. So previously we had one pizza store. Um, and now we're expanding to Chicago and to New York. And, um, the different locations have different approaches to designing that pizza. Um, so we have variation, not just in the type of pizza. We also have variation in the preparation steps of the pizza. So you remember we had this if else statement for the different types of pizza. Now the preparation also has some variations. So this is now not constant anymore. This is also a variable uh part. Yeah. Well, but we don't. We don't want a, let's say, Chicago cheese pizza and a New York cheese pizza and a Chicago pepperoni pizza and a New York, uh, cheese pizza. Right? We don't want to duplicate the types of pizza with our location in the inheritance hierarchy, so we want to avoid that. Okay. Any other ideas? Yes. Kind of similar to like having a variable to store, whether it's Chicago or the New York. Yes. Yeah. So we create an abstract interface where we, uh, we create an abstract class pizza store that has an abstract method, create pizza, uh, that then takes the string and then uh, can have some variation there as well. Um, and then we have a New York style pizza store that creates pizza in a different way from the Chicago style pizza store. So then our create pizza method is decided by the subclass. And let me just make a small change in these slides to make this one in italics, because this is abstract. Okay, so now instead of having just one, um, pizza or one, um, object, we've, we have introduced this polymorphism and then our, um, pizza store, New York store, uh, gets created, and then we can order our cheese pizza from the New York store, and then our Chicago store, uh, can order cheese pizza as well. Uh, and then the implementation of, um, these methods can then very, very greatly. And how they, um, how they cultivate the, uh, uh, the different ingredients for, um, for our cheese pizza. So this is the factory method pattern. And the only difference between the factory method pattern and the simple factory, uh, is that now we have subclasses of our creator, um, that then creates different products. Our client, uh, has a reference to a creator. So this is this is basically kind of like the strategy pattern, right? The creation is now a strategy. Uh, we have different subclasses here that implement this, uh, for different kind of products. So we have pizza, we have New York cheese pizza, we have Chicago cheese pizza. So we have a lot of different kinds of, uh, pizza that's then created by our concrete creators. We usually like to call this a creator because the next pattern is a, um. It's called the abstract Factory that does this in even more flexible, um, manner. But the abstract, like the, the general structure of the factory method pattern, is this. So it defines an interface for creating an object. Um, but let subclasses decide which class to instantiate. Uh, factory method patterns let you let a class defer instantiation to subclasses. So you always have this abstract creator class that has an abstract factory method class. This is why it's called the factory method pattern. And then the factory method has multiple different implementations. Uh, by some a concrete creator that is then implementing the factory method and then creates a concrete product. Um, you don't necessarily always have a 1 to 1 mapping between these and these. So in this example, uh, we have a hierarchy that is maybe not as clean. Well yeah, I would, I would generally prefer not to have this. Um, so probably up to this example. Um, um, because yeah, I don't usually like to have a New York style cheese pizza and a Chicago style cheese. This is just the cheese pizza that is instantiated with different parameters. That's generally how this would work. Um, yeah. So think of this as maybe, um, let me just update this right now. Um, this is a just cheese pizza. Um. And this is a, um. People. A pizza. So the the types of products has not necessarily changed, but the way how we create them, that depends on the location where we are. So in New York, we prepare the cheese pizza in a different way than in Chicago. And, um, our client doesn't know what kind of store we are ordering at. Um, so our client should not know that there are, um, different kinds of stores in New York style and a Chicago style store. Um, this in this, uh, decision is kind of hidden from the client. And the client is not the person ordering the pizza. The client is just the object pointing towards, um, the creator. Okay. So the overall structure here looks very very similar to the strategy right. We have an abstract class of a concrete class. We have um, some um, abstract uh interface that we delegate to. And then we now create different products here. So we have kind of two parallel inheritance hierarchies. This is usually, um, you know, actual inheritance. This is usually, uh, interface realization. Um, and only the concrete creators knows about the concrete products. Uh, the abstract creator doesn't know about it. And then the client pointing to this. They also don't usually know about the, uh, concrete products. Okay. Question about this. The factory method pattern. You see this everywhere. The factory method pattern is very, very often used whenever you have multiple different kinds of products you want to create, and you have variation in how you create them and when you need them. You have different ways to prepare pizza, but they're the same products that you prepare. You just prepare them in a different way. Okay. Any questions? Cool. But what is the difference between the strategy and the factory method? They have a lot in common, but what is different about them? Talk to your neighbor. That's. Okay. What's the difference? And now. Now we'll see who really understands the core concepts behind design patterns. Because the correct answer is. I mean not is obvious. Okay. What do you think? Who has an idea? Uh, yes. Do you have an idea? With the factory method. Controls like which type of project, which is created, where. Strategy. Or like the strategy pattern is trying to identify like two different types of method based on the type of. Um, so I would say behaviorally speaking, they are basically identical. You have some variation in behavior. The variation behavior half of the factory method is the creation. Variation. Right. And then the. You can think of this as a strategy. You have some behavior that's different. The algorithm on how to create these objects. That would be different. Um. You are right in the sense that, uh, the factory method is specifically about creation. So when we discuss design patterns, we are not discussing purely the solutions. So from last lecture, you remember a design pattern is a abstract solution to an app, to a reoccurring problem that arises in a specific context. So it's not just the solution, it's always a triplet between problem, context and solution. When we talk about design patterns, we are not just communicating the design ideas, we are also communicating the intent behind the design pattern. We use this not just to describe the specific solution, but also what the purpose behind this solution is. So if somebody says I've used the strategy pattern to create objects, um, I guess they are technically correct because they have applied behavior variation with subtyping to the behavior variation of creation, but they have misunderstood that a design pattern is about the intent communicating why this problem needs to be solved. So this is why we call the specific instance of behavior variation in the creation of an object a factory method. Even though the structure and behavior is almost identical, it's almost identical. It's a special case for the creation of objects, and we use design patterns as vocabulary to discuss different design ideas. And this is why we use the term factory method. Whenever we talk about behavior variation and the creation of objects. And we use a strategy pattern whenever it's some other kind of behavior that has variation, so that when we use these terms, people know not just what the solution is, but also what the problem is we are solving. Okay. Is this clear? Does this make sense? I think this is a really important point to really understand the benefit and the whole structure of design patterns that are not just about the solution. They also communicating what problem has been solved with the observer. It's the same thing. You are saying I want a one to many relationship. If you want a 1 to 1 relationship, you would not call it an observer. You say? I use the observer to say I want specifically I want to many relationship where I want to decouple, um, the listeners from the subject. So you would not call it an observer if the goal was not to decouple, even if somehow that object's structure makes sense for other reasons, you would not call it an observer. You only call it an observer when you want to communicate the design intent that you want to decouple the listeners from the subject. Okay. Got questions? Cool. Nice. Then let's move on to the Abstract Factory. The Abstract Factory is probably one of the more complex design patterns. So now you'll see a lot of classes and it's going to get very small, very tiny font. So if you said in the last row you might want to open the slides on your laptop. Um. Okay, now, some of our different, uh, pizza store locations have gone rogue. They decided to use ingredients of inferior quality. And we want to ensure that all of the different kinds of ingredients still satisfy our quality standards of our, uh, UCLA, uh, Sears 130 pizza store. Um. So now we also need to get in the ingredients business. So now we don't just build pizza. We also select and construct different ingredients as well. So now what we're doing is not just taking existing ingredients that we buy from other vendors, but we also have variations of different kinds of ingredients that we specifically select to guarantee that the product we are creating is of high quality. So we have different product family. So now we have different kinds of dough, different kinds of sauce, different kinds of cheese, different kind of veggies, different kinds of meat. They all have different implementations. So now we don't just have a pizza class with different subclasses of pizza. Now we also have different subclasses to the ingredients of the pizza. We have a, uh, cheese superclass. And then we have a mozzarella and a goda and a, um, American cheese subclass with different kinds of dough, different kinds of veggies. So now our pizza ingredients factory has to look kind of like this. So we have an abstract class dough sauce cheese, veggies. And then we have a factory method for each of them. So now our pizza ingredients factory um doesn't just create one type of product. It creates a family of products that are all related. So we have, uh, whenever we create dough, we probably also want to get some sauce, some cheese. So they are then not just completely different products that should be in their own factory. No, they all are related semantically in the sense that they're all used in the same object structure or, um, object. Um. Um, I'll be able. Context. So for each region, we then create a subclass of our Pizza ingredients factory that implements these concrete methods. So we have, uh, a different set of ingredients that we use. We have the regional cheese, we have the red peppers, the thick crust. So um, and then they can be shared amongst different regions. So maybe the red peppers are available in New York and in Chicago, but maybe the thick crust dough is only available in New York. So only the New York, um, uh, store can, can use this one. And then we, uh, integrate different ingredients into our pizza, uh, store code. And that kind of looks like this. Uh, so on New York Ingredients Factory then decides what kind of dough it picks, what kind of sauce it picks, what kind of cheese. And so for each of the different products, our New York Pizza ingredients factory then picks one, right? So we basically have instead of a, um, a factory method where we have one factory that just implements one create method. Now our factory has a lot of different create methods that are all about different kinds of products. And there could also be some, you know, mix here. So we don't just blindly create one type of veggie. No, no we mean we mix different veggie. So there's some it's not just purely for voting to um the concrete products. So there's also some logic involved, some interesting logic that does some uh. So now we need to force our franchise owners to only use the, um, factory produce ingredients. So our pizza store does not know about the concrete classes. Our pizza store. Now just, um. No, it's about the factory that produces these ingredients. We don't allow our pizza stores to have any dependency on these concrete, um, ingredients or that they can't make these decisions themselves. We have made the decision of what types of concrete, um. Ingredients exist from our pizza store. And then our abstract class just has a string to the name. And then it implements the prepare and bake and cut. So this all kind of is the same. But then our concrete pizza class, uh, just has. Yeah. They all just have a constructor. And then our, uh, structure, uh, looks like. Okay, so I have one more point. Now, the abstract pizza class has actual ingredients options. Um, okay, let's look at the code. Okay. This is how the code looks like. We have our, um, New York pizza store that creates a pizza with a string, and then it just calls. It creates a ingredients factory. And here now we use the New York pizza ingredients factory that we've defined somewhere else. So this this is picking the specific ingredients. This is preparing the ingredients. And then our New York pizza store. Again, we hide this decision of all of the concrete ingredients from the, um, New York pizza store. And this is just now saying, okay, I know how to create different kinds of pizza. I want to, um. Create my new cheese pizza with my ingredients factory. So I forward this ingredient factory to the Pete the Cheese pizza. And this one is then calling all of the, you know, create dough, create sauce, or create veggies, um, on this ingredients factory. And then we set the name to the New York style cheese pizza. And then if it's a veggie pizza, we create a veggie pizza. We forward the ingredients to our veggie pizza. Uh, that is in creating the corresponding ingredients. Uh, and then we, we do some New York style logic on our resulting product. Um. Okay. Does this make sense so far? Let's make sense of us. So we. Yes. Great question. Great question. What's the difference between this and just the pure factory method design pattern? There are two differences and I hope the next. Um, okay, let's maybe just move to the. Yes. Okay. Let's move to the class diagram. How we see this. I hope you can read this. Um, the only difference between the abstract factory and the factory method is that the abstract factory is what we call a compound pattern that uses multiple factory methods. So now your factory method, your abstract factory, instead of having one single factory method implementation one create method A has multiple of them. And the context that we're providing or the intent behind this pattern. So we have a family of related products. So instead of just a single product. So with a normal factory method we would just have one type of product. And then we create one type of product. With the abstract factory we have a family of related products that need to be created in about that need to be created or used in the same context. Um. So we bundle them together. We bundle the decision point of which and how to create these different, this family of products. The decision um, that decides which one we are using should be one central point should be basically our New York. Are we in Chicago. Uh, and we bundle them together in one class and then has a factory method for each of them. That's the only difference. Uh, so factory method, we call it, uh, whenever it's kind of an independent decision. Um, and usually these classes just have one create method. Uh, we call it an abstract factory when we have a family of related products. Um. Where the decision point is. Um. Um, with a decision to use them and create them as co-located. If we have a family of products that are so different from each other that at multiple different locations, we have to make these decisions individually, then it wouldn't make sense to put this in one factory in one class, because we want to put the things that change together in one class and separate the things that change for separate reasons. Uh, so we often have to make when we have this, you know, family of products, we often have to make the choice between this abstract factory that puts all of these factory methods in one class, or we have, let's say, separate classes that create them, and then we have separate variation points. Um, then the decision there would be, um, do we expect these, um, decision points to be co-located, or do we expect these decision points to be, uh, spread across our, our application? Um, but yeah, strictly speaking, the Abstract Factory is basically just a factory method that then uses the factory method pattern more than once. Um, in a different context. Okay. Let's go back and see if we forgot something here. Um, so we've talked about this. Um, we've talked about this. We fix this? What do we fix here? We don't actually fix each. Um. Okay. Yes. So we provided a means for creating a family of ingredients by introducing this new type of factory, the abstract factory. And this provides an interface for creating a we call it a family of products or family basically means they are related. Um, this is kind of what the meaning of family of products, instead of this list of products of multiple products would be there. They're related to each other. And this decouples the code from the actual factory that creates the product. So we, uh, delay the decision point of which abstract factory we're using to some other point in the code that decides. Now we make the decision that we are New York or that we're in Chicago. But, um, when we're in Chicago, we always create, um, the products in one way. And when we are in the other city, then we always create it in another way. So this is this is why these decisions are related. And this makes it much easier for you to see, um, you know what? What makes a New York pizza store a New York pizza store? You just look at the New York ingredients factory and then you see, oh, they're selecting these types of ingredients. You see all of these ingredients that are used in New York in one place. So whenever you want to get a good sense of what a New York style pizza is, uh, this is the place where you look. And whenever, uh, the New Yorkers are, uh, changing their taste, you know exactly what place in the code you have to change to give the New York users different kinds of ingredients. Right. It's really easy for you to identify the place where you make this change. And if you now introduce, um, a new location, a Los Angeles pizza store, you just create a new, uh, abstract factory, the LA, uh, ingredients factory, and then you select the ingredients and then everything else magically already works because nobody even knows that there are multiple locations. It's just the, uh, LA ingredients factory that even knows that, uh, there is the place called LA. None. No other place in the code even knows that LA exists. I don't even know what la. I've not had a pizza in LA and I'm not sure if pizza here is a good. I don't know. I'm European, so I like your Italian style a little bit more than the American style. Uh, okay. Anyways, this is how our, um. Um. Pizza factory looks like. And the important thing here is that whatever object is using the abstract products and the abstract factory, they specifically do not know about the concrete products. They have no idea about the concrete products. They have no idea about no insight into the concrete factories. They only depend on these abstract interfaces. And this, this allows this, this code to work really, really well and to localize the change that's needed. So whenever you design your systems, you want to make sure that you've, um. Um. Did you've you've coded against a abstract interface rather than a concrete implementation. This is what Robert C Martin calls the dependency inversion principle. Concrete classes should never depend on concrete classes. They should always be coded against abstract interfaces. Um, it's a very important design principle when you're working with object oriented systems that you want to depend on interfaces rather than on concrete classes, because that minimizes the blast radius of any change that would be related. Okay. Um. Yeah, that's basically your question. What's the difference between factory method and abstract factory? Uh, so the factory method is, uh, just one part of the pattern, and then we have, um, multiple factory methods in our, um, um. System, and the abstract factory is basically using the factory method pattern. Um. Yeah. If we were to rename this, it makes maybe more sense to think of this as the ingredient factory, right? Abstract factory. It sounds kind of like it's not really saying something. The whole point of the design pattern is that you produce families of products that have different kind of ingredients as well. Um, Abstract Factory just kind of sounds like, well, in the factory method pattern, there's also an abstract class, right? This this is why the naming of these design patterns is maybe a little bit weird. Um. But, uh, now let's look at an abstract factory that produces different kind of graphical user interfaces. So we have a window kit. We have a motive window kit, an open look window kit. We have different kind of windows, different kind of scrollbars. Um, obviously this is an implementation of the Abstract Factory. Which class is the abstract factory and which classes are the concrete factories? Talk to your neighbor. Okay. Any ideas? This one has an idea. No. There's an idea. Oh, I thought this was easy. Is it so easy that nobody wants to raise their hand? It's actually difficult. Yes. They are the window pane window. Yep. So this is this is the abstract factory. This is what we sometimes call the concrete factory. Oops. Um, yep. So this is the abstract factory. This is the concrete factories. Um, and then what are the concrete products? These are the concrete products. These are the abstract products. Okay. Which classes must be modified if you want to change a different look and feel called a mac window kit. So you want to create a new, different look and feel. Mac window kit. What? What has to change or what do you have to add? Yes. You have to add a. Potentially if you can't make it. If you can produce it out of the existing concrete product, that's exactly what you need to do. Yes. So you have to create the Mac window kit, and you have to create the Mac window and the Mac scroll bar. In some cases, you might be able to produce them already out of the existing products. But um, yeah, in this case that's not the case. Um, yeah. So we just create a new one and you see, this is amazing design. The only thing we've done is we've created new concrete classes. We've not changed any existing behavior. We've not gone into some kind of weird if else branch have changed anything like that. Now we've just added new classes. So this is a very extensible design. We want to design our systems in a way that they are open for extension and closed for modification. That's what better home life and robots in market called the open closed principle. You want your systems to be open for extension so you can subclass classes, but they should be closed for modification. You should not have to look inside a class to make a change. You should just add your code in a new class. So these design patterns, uh, implementing these design principles very well. Okay. Um. Oh. Uh, yeah. What? Do you have to change them? I forgot this question. Which classes must be modified? If you want to add a new type of product, such as a button. Okay, this is now getting quite difficult. So we see there are some changes that are much harder to accommodate. So if we now want to add a new different kind of button, uh, with its own concrete classes, now we have to modify all of the existing classes. We have to add a new create button, a method to all of the factory method, abstract factories. Um, now we have to add it to the interface and then to all of the concrete factories that are implementing this. So we see there are some changes that are easy to do in this design pattern that just require adding new classes. And there are some changes that require changing all of the existing classes. And, uh, we want to use these design patterns only in the situation where we expect the type of change that is easily supported by the design pattern. And if we expect that in the near future, we want to add a new, different kind of, uh, button product. And then there are a lot of different concrete buttons. Uh, we want to avoid using this design pattern. We then want to use maybe a, um, maybe a visitor. I'm going to be not going to teach you about visitor in this class, so maybe let's not talk about the visitor. Uh, but there are different design patterns for different kinds of, um, extensions. So every design pattern is specifically designed for one type of extension. And then it's your job as the skilled engineer to anticipate what are the likely changes, and then pick the design patterns that specifically prepare you for the type of change that you expect. Okay. Questions about this. Okay. Yeah. Let's go. Maybe let's go maybe through these questions as well. And then we're going to take a quick break. Um, what happens if we have multiple types of windows. What happens if we need different types of windows that take different arguments? What happens if you want to define a window as a combination of windows, scroll bar and button? Talk to your neighbor. So the question is kind of more about. Is it easy or hard to accommodate? It's less about the specific approach, more about is it easy or hard to accommodate? Two. We have. Okay. What do you think about the first, um. The first change? Who thinks this is easy to do? Raise your hand if you think the first change. What happens if we have multiple types of products? It's easy to do. Okay. A lot of students think this is easy to do. Who thinks this is hard to do? Oh, okay. Why is it hard to do? Uh, it seems like you'd say. I mean, to add. But then you'd have to, uh. A whole separate product. Oh, the first the first question. We just have different types of when to add more different types of windows. I don't know that's that's easy right. Okay, good. Everybody is in agreement. We just add a new subclass to window. Uh, that's how how we get a new support for a new window. The second question, what happens if we need different types of windows that take different arguments? So now some of our windows, uh, need, let's say they've been a connection to a shell. And some windows need a connection to a server because they run on a like, remote server or whatever. Who thinks this is easy to do? Who thinks this is hard to do? Everybody is in agreement. Which is correct? Yes. So the, uh, factory abstract factory design pattern assumes that they all have the same interface and that it's transparent to everybody using them. What kind of type of, um, window this is? So if we then change the required interface of one of the concrete products, we've broken the interface promise. And that is not really what the abstract factory is useful. You have a question? Yes. It's, uh, related to the first one that you have, um, as a subclass of window, but do we not need to also add creation methods for the object? Uh. Yeah. We could we could create a new concrete factory that then creates this, uh, but we don't have to necessarily. Like, we don't have to add a new method, for example. Right. We only have to create a new concrete factory that that somehow creates it. That's right. But it's an additive change. We don't have to change anything that's already existing. Yeah. Uh, third question. What happens if we want to define a window is a combination of window, scrollbar and button. With things that would now become a very easy change. One who thinks this is hard and it's not really supported by the design pattern. One. Two. Three. Four. Five. Okay. Almost everyone okay? Yes. So if we have products that, um, where the creation of a product requires a lot of different other parts, that's not what the Abstract Factory is designed for. So we have independent products that are, uh, created separately without, uh, depending on each other. We'll learn about the design pattern for this, um, after the break. So, um, let's go on a five minute break. Well. Steve. Um. You try. So 101. Okay, let's get back to class. Okay. The design pattern that. Oh, I probably forgot to. Yeah, I forgot to record this later. Is this fine? It's fine. I'm not going to have it in in our notebook. And then I guess we don't have the transcript in the notebook. The, um, um, the design pattern that is designed for building, um, objects that consist of multiple parts is the build, the design pattern and the build. The design pattern will look very similar to, uh, you know, that you've identified with the factory method pattern. So in the build a design pattern, you have a client that is using a director. This is just an object that's between your actual builder and the client. And then the builder has one simple construct method. And then this construct method is just calling um, build part on all of the different parts. And then you have a builder that's kind of like a factory method. Um, multiple factory methods. You have multiple factory methods for each of the different parts. So you have a lot of different parts, and then you have a factory method implementation for each of the different parts. That then depends on concrete products. Again, um, the nice thing about the builder is that you've abstracted away the, uh, process of um, defining in which order your, uh, parts are built from the, um, decision of how to build these individual products. Um, so you've now separated the definition of how to build your, your, uh, ingredients from the structure of deciding how to, in what order they are, uh, constructed. So now you could at some point decide that to construct your products, you would have to change the order, or you have to remove, uh, one part entirely. And then this is localized inside of your director. So the the problem is I want to add more different product representations in a context, in a context where the structure is composed of many individual parts. So this is how the builder is different from the factory method and the, um, abstract factory in the sense that now your product has multiple different parts. And the factory method. Uh, yeah. You basically have one factory method for each part, and then you have a director that is constructing the, um, parts, uh, in a predetermined order. It's just kind of like factory method, but with a direct in between that encapsulates the sequence. You can think about it this way. Um, the builder is quite common. So you see the builder probably very, very commonly because it has a super simple interface that your client just needs to know, okay, this like some kind of builder, uh, you could also have really, really complicated logic here. So instead of just having a sequence, your builder could then take a specification. That's, uh, another example of where you would use a builder, where your client gives you a specification and a form of, let's say, like some kind of Json data structure. And then it's constructing your, uh, your parts based on a given, uh, specification. And then it knows, uh, these different parts as well. Um. Okay. Questions about the builder. Cool. Yeah. So these are all different creational patterns. So they are all solving the problem of how to create complex data structures. And they all solve different subproblems. So the abstract factory is creating objects in a family of multiple different but related product types. The builder is producing objects that have different parts that has some kind of sequential creation process. The factory method is only one type of product in a simple object structure. So basically, depending on which of these subproblems fits your context the most, you would then select the different design pattern based on your specific context. So they all have this abstract problem how to create. Then they have different contexts for which their design and that they communicate to the reader. So when you see a um, when you are onboarded to a new team that uses these design patterns and they're design, they're used well, then whenever you see somebody use the abstract factory pattern or the builder design pattern, you now instantly know, um, assuming they are competent designers, that, uh, whenever you see Abstract Factory, you know, there are some kind of family of products that are related. And whenever you see the builder, you know, oh, okay, there's some kind of multiple parts in a sequential build process. So you don't actually have to look at the code anymore, because you already have identified this based on the name of the design pattern. Okay. Cool. And yeah, each of them also has separate consequences. So the abstract factory has the highest amount of extensibility. You have more variation points. You have much more complexity. You have a lot of classes. You have a lot of variation points. Um, so the factory, uh, especially to somebody who hasn't studied this design pattern, it's going to be much harder to understand than a simple factory method or a simple factory. Um, the. A builder communicates what parts the product has. So now we've we've kind of, um, encapsulated this in a one class and the factory method of as much more simplicity but also less extensibility. So you have less flexibility with this design pattern. So when you are, um, unsure which pattern to use, you want to think about the different subproblems they solve. And you also want to think of the different consequences they have. So the consequences, you can think of them as the quality attributes that you gain by using this design decision. So your decision to use the epic factory almost always comes with this trade off. You have more flexibility but also more complexity. When you use the factory method, you get more simplicity and and less complexity. And then in your specific situation you have to make the decision. What is more important is simplicity of the design. More important was flexibility of the design more important? This is where your human intelligence comes into play. Um, but they also have common consequences. They all decouple the usage and the creation of objects. So we have some part of the code that uses these, um, concrete objects that it's only coded against the abstract interface. And then you have other parts of the code that define how they are created. You've decoupled them so they don't know about each other. The creation process has no idea how these objects are used, and the code that is using them has no idea how they are created. In most cases, that's a good thing. But there are also cases in which it just adds more complexity than is necessary. And it's also encapsulating object creation. And the state of object creation like builder could also have state. Um, so you've you've hidden the, uh, design decisions on how how to create them in, um, in one cluster. This is usually a good thing. It's easier to add more products. That's also that's always the case for all of these patterns. It's always easier to add more products. That's always a consequence of using any of these three patterns. And you always get more complexity than you would have if you wouldn't use any of these patterns. So whenever you use any of these three, you always use in like 99% of the cases, you get these consequences. Um, so studying the consequences of these patterns and makes it easier for you to decide which one to use, because then you know all about the consequences. And you, you can you can instruct your cloud code or your codex or your, uh, your Gemini to use these design patterns whenever you, you recognize one of these use cases. In general when you, um. So this is some kind of design pattern design theory. When you, uh, you want to approach the problem of how to decide between these patterns. But first, identifying what subproblems to solve. Um, so you want to learn all of these patterns and then identify the pattern families that are, um, solving similar problems. So in this lecture we have looked at creational patterns. Um, there are other kinds of patterns that solve similar problems. Uh, for example, um, if you build complex object structures, that's going to be the composite design pattern. And there's the decorator design pattern. They both create complex object structures, uh, I guess implement different complex object structures. Uh, so you should when, uh, in this class, we can only capture, like, I don't know, like five, seven different design patterns because it's just, you know, 2 or 3 lecture, uh, block in a larger class. Um, but. When. When you are ready for industry, you want to study more of these design patterns. And whenever you're studying them, you want to kind of group them into these subproblems that they all solve in common. Um, and then you want to think about how they apply to your concrete situation. So there will be some situations where, uh, some of the abstract benefits don't apply. Right. Let's say adding a new product. If you're in a situation where you never expect new products to be added. Then the consequence that you get easier addition of products just doesn't really apply to you. So you need to think about which of the consequences that the design person generally offers is actually important in your specific context. And you need to identify, uh, the different contexts that are addressed by each pattern. So, um. This is maybe one of the things where, um, they come with more experience, or they'd come just with more studying of these patterns and memorizing them. But, um. Um, an important part of becoming fluent with design patterns is becoming very familiar with the mapping of these design patterns to the context that they address. So a lot of, uh, undergraduates, uh, think of design patterns purely as the solution. And they're like, oh, they're the observer. This is just this, um, um, class that stores the list, right? That's an observer. Uh, and that is part of the observer. But what makes that a design pattern is also that it's specifically designed for the context that it tries to decouple two different parts of the system. So, um, if you don't if the only thing you remember about the observer is how it's implemented, then it's going to be harder for you to decide when to use the observer design pattern. So I would recommend you, if you focus your attention maybe on, you know, one aspect of the design, I would focus more on the context and the consequences then on the behavior and structure, because you can quite easily look up the behavior and structure of a design pattern. Um, but it's harder for you to know that you need to look up the behavior and structure of the observer. If you don't remember that now, you should apply the observer. Um, and now that I'm talking about this, I just realized that this is exactly the way how you would structure, um, a, um, agent skill on design patterns. Um, I sure do have some time for this. Um. Let me see how much time we have. I think we have time for this. Um, so the way how you how you structure skills for your I agents is that you basically do exactly this. You you give them a document that says, um, here are different knowledge files for each of the different design patterns you have. And then in your main skill and you describe when they should be loaded into context. And this is exactly how you as a human want to learn. You want to think about, um, all of the different knowledge you learn in college. Uh, you want to think about. You want to focus on memorizing when you should apply them, and then know where to look them up so that you can dynamically load them in context when you need them. And industry is exactly how I agents work. Um, because that kind of works well for humans as well. Um, and for design patterns, it's more about the context that they solve and the, um, consequences than it is about the specific structure and behavior. But I will have to say that, you know, for like an exam, you might have to know all of these, you know, not just one. Um, so for for an exam, of course, we want to kind of know that the patterns, structure and the behavior and also the context and consequences. Uh, so this is more advice for, you know, um, after an exam. Okay. Um, yeah. So, yeah. Then you want to identify how the abstract consequences of your design patterns are translating to, um, concrete consequences in your specific situation. So the consequences of each pattern can vary wildly on the context, um, and, uh, identifying how the concrete, uh, how the consequence of a design pattern map to your concrete situation. This is, this is what makes you, um, a very smart designer, is that you have some intuition and how to apply them. And you have a good idea of, um. Uh, what is important in your specific situation? When you use design patterns, you are often in the situation where you basically have to make the choice between avoiding overengineering while at the same time avoiding under engineering. So under engineering, that's quite common for, let's say, students who have not taken a class like this yet. Um, under engineering is not thinking about design enough. Um, often students end up with solutions that are very inflexible. Uh, they are hard to change, um, where change then becomes very expensive. Um, and this is often caused either by a lack of time. People like, I have to ship this feature. My boss tells me I need to, uh, implement five new features until Wednesday. I don't have the time to carefully think about design. Uh, it's also, uh, sometimes just kind of bad management. Um, or lack of skill. If nobody has taught you how to carefully consider design decisions, it's quite hard to gain this skill, um, just by yourself. But students who have taken a class like this, uh, right after they have taken this class, they often want to just apply this at every single point when they make a decision. They want to put a lot of design patterns, and they want to put a lot of delayed decisions, a lot of decision points, a lot of directions. We sometimes call this the second system effect after people have learned how to avoid under engineering. They tend to completely over engineer, and then they end up with a system that has so much flexibility that it's impossible by any human to comprehend the system. Uh, so the system is much more flexible and much more sophisticated than needed. This is what we call premature abstractions. We've created interfaces where there's just a single implementation of the interface for the entire lifetime of the system that has no purpose. It just created an additional file. It just has hidden some, uh, details that people might actually need to know to understand how the algorithm works. And, um. This is why, um. Um, are these different kinds of philosophies in software engineering? There's the like Robert C Martin approach. Um, that is, you want to, um, design your objects to be flexible and you want to, um, um, write clean code that is really easy to read. And then there's the, uh, systems engineers approach, uh, that, uh, wants to avoid this at all costs and tries to just write code that executes very, very fast. Um, and your goal as the engineer is to identify when you want flex, when you need flexibility in your solution, and when you need, uh, performance, or when your comprehensibility is a diminished by the use of these design patterns. The nice thing about many of these design patterns is that once you understand these structures, it's going to be much easier for you and anybody else who understands the design pattern to understand what's going on. If you don't understand the observer design pattern, it's going to be really hard for you to see, okay, there's some notify method. There's some register observer. What's going on here. That's often quite a hard to understand by people who are not familiar with the design pattern. So by studying these design patterns, you can kind of, uh, minimize and by communicating that you use this design patterns often minimizing the negative consequences of overengineering. But, um. Yeah. This is also if an even if the option the design you're picking is not objectively worse, you might have just wasted a week of thinking about the perfect solution. Well, you could have spend a week actually making money. Uh, this is especially detrimental for young startups or small companies that need to make money quite quickly. You have a lot of unnecessary complexity. Every class you create has to be maintained, documented, and tested. Uh, so you add a lot of burden on the documentation and testing of your systems. Um, that might not necessarily pay off if you don't need the flexibility. So are. Um, human intuition should be to find the right trade off between these two. This is not easy. This is not easy. But, um. Yeah, it's basically a trade off between simplicity and changeability. Do we have fewer classes, fewer objects, fewer methods? This means there are fewer locations that need to be understood to fully comprehend the system, often fewer patterns or changeability. That means you provide abstractions that make it easier for you to add functionality without changing existing code. There are generally more locations that need to be understood to fully understand what's going on, but this often means there are fewer locations needed for a specific change. Um, this is kind of what this changeability is designed from many patterns. Um. Yeah. In some cases, patterns can give you both. Um, well, the naming of the pattern in your code then tells people, oh, this is exactly where you need to find. Uh, I think the visitor's probably an even better example of a design pattern. That's hard to understand. Maybe you should do this next week. I'm going to show you some visitor code, and then we'll we'll see if you can understand what's going on without knowing the visitor design pattern. Maybe I'll, uh. I'll see. I'll see if I can maybe add this to to next week's. Oh, no, it was Tuesday, so it will be Thursday. Maybe I can add something like this. So an exercise like this into into Thursday's lecture so you can see that now we are kind of like reinventing these design principles from a concrete examples. But maybe going the other way around, showing you the code of design patterns and letting you figure out what's going on and why this is a good pattern might be fun. That's let me do this on on Thursday. Um. Um, yeah. So you again. This is why we taught you. Uh, change impact analysis and why you can probably expect some change impact analysis to be on, uh, some exam that you might be taking at some point in the future. Uh, you want to think about what design decisions might change, and then you want to pick the design options that are specifically designed for anticipating these changes. Um, how likely are those what scope do they impact? How easy would it be to apply these changes of the design pattern. So these are the steps you need to go through. Which class hierarchy. So object structures might grow. Uh, most of these design patterns help you grow object structures in one specific way, but then prevent the growth into a completely different way. As we've seen with the, um, abstract fact, we can easily add new concrete products, but adding new product concrete product types, that's a change that requires, uh, uh, has a very large blast radius. Um, yeah. So these are the questions you basically need to go through. If you wanted to design a, uh, um, AI agent that does this for you would put these into the skill file. I want to do this at some point. I want to I want to put all of the things that I'm teaching in 130 into, like, skill files and, and see what, uh, what I can do by learning these things. Um, okay. This is getting boring. It's just repetitive. But maybe this this structure helps you make sense of this. Every single design pattern, uh, the design pattern itself is an abstract solution that solves an abstract problem that occurs in an abstract context. And then when you are implementing this design pattern, you have to solve a concrete problem. So you have to find, uh, an implementation of the, uh, you have a concrete problem, you have to find a concrete solution that is an instance of the abstract solution. So design patterns don't give you specific code they give you. And a solution that has to be very it has to be tailored to your specific solution. So your job is to first identify that your concrete problem is an instance of the abstract problem. And then your concrete context is an instance of the abstract problem of the design pattern. And then once you've done this, I guess this this, you could maybe let your Claude de or here, uh, your code to, um, tailoring the concrete solution to, um, your concrete problem. That's probably good at this. No, I'm pretty sure they're really good at this. No, they're probably harder at. I, uh, they're basically worse at identifying with the concrete problem in the concrete context. I've tried this, um, a few times with examples that are actually quite well documented in the literature, like when you, for example, when I design a monopoly game, of course, you want to use the state design pattern. Um, somehow I unless you specifically ask AI to think about design patterns, it doesn't think about it. It doesn't do it well. So you have a job. That's good. Um. Okay. Yeah. Too many patterns can lead to overengineering. So you don't want to think of the patent as a hammer, and then everything looks like a nail. I should have put this graphic in here, because I don't think we put it in the first lecture. But anyways, um, and then for each problem, there are many patterns that solve them. And each pattern can have, uh, different consequences. You should kind of memorize most of these. That's kind of, you know, maybe why some students said there was quite a bit of memorization in this class. Um, but yeah. So this has been lecture two of design patterns. Um, these are the most important design patterns from this lecture. The builder, we didn't cover the builder in as much detail. So that's why we focus this on, um. This example. And yeah, for question two, you know you have to make a decision and you'll probably have to make more decisions and homework and exams about this, these things. Um. So, uh, I like to have questions that are more about, you know, question two on exams. So you'll probably see more of these questions on your exams than the first type. Because I think this is where the human skills are still needed.