[Auto-generated transcript. Edits may have been applied for clarity.] Okay. In this lecture, I'm going to teach you how to explain how AI coding agents work, uh, how to identify challenges and risks that result from the use of AI, how to apply software engineering techniques to mitigate the risks of AI, and how to apply prompt engineering techniques to maximize the usefulness of AI. But let's first kind of talk about the elephant in the room of. Will I take your job and to talk about this? I like to compare this with people as saying basically the same thing in the 1960s. These computers are taking my job. Suddenly they are not writing machine code anymore. And, uh, yeah, now people are afraid that let's take their job. What do these scenarios have in common? And what is different between them? I guess nobody here really has a neighbor. So maybe talk to yourself for 30s. Okay, let me just do 10s. Okay. What would you guess they have in common? Let's talk about the commonalities first. What do they have in common? Yes. They're working on changes. So basic services like assembly. And now I guess job is not really existing. And then presumably with elements. You won't really have to write every. More. More so by using natural language. I would challenge that. The last part. I would challenge the last part. Um, yes. Yeah, right. So they came a new technology. And what did this technology do in both cases? What is it doing? Why are we why are we using compilers and why are we afraid of loops? Yes. Right. So the increasing the productivity. And the main difference between the productivity gains of a compiler and the productivity gains of a, uh, Lem is that compilers actually had a ten x productivity gain. Compilers have been the only invention ever in software engineering history that produced a one order of magnitude productivity gain. And this is really interesting paper by Fred Brooks, who won the Turing Award for writing the book The Mythical Man Month. Um, that. Uh, where he basically outlines all of the mistakes that he's made as the top manager of IBM OS 360. And he's like, I'm going to write all of these mistakes so that you don't have to. Um, and he wrote a paper called There's No Silver Bullet, where he argues that never, ever in the history of software engineering, will there be a technique, um, of, uh, tooling, kind of a management kind of process, kind that will ever. Give us another ten x productivity boost. And he was arguing this based on the difference between essential and accidental complexity. So he was saying, um, there is complexity that is part of the problem domain. We have to tackle this part of the complexity, the essential complexity we have to deal with, because this is part of the problem domain. This therefore makes it also part of the solution space. And um, I say hearing that. Yes. Okay. Um, and there's accidental complexity that we add by not implementing things in the right way. And he was basically saying that because we do not spend 90% of our time on accidental complexity, that can just logically not be, um, a technique that speeds up our productivity by another ten x. Um, I think until we have reached AGI or RSI, like narrow RSI encoding, this will be true. Um, so this this will remain true until, you know, we have actually, uh, developed technology that is able to perform all of the cognitive abilities needed to, uh, do coding, which I believe is all of them. But, you know, maybe, maybe I'm wrong on that. We'll see. Um, so the somewhat old studies on this. So there are not a lot of new studies on this, but the studies that I found, they put like a productivity gain of around 21% to 50% on AI. Uh, so no, this is not not even A5X. There's a 1.5 x. Yes. You argue that it's just due to people. Use them properly. I would say it's due to the inability of the thing doing what a real human can do. Because like if if they could replace humans, then we would have reached AGI, right? If they could do everything you can do. If they had all of the cognitive abilities you have. Then by definition we would have reached AGI. But that's not to say that the productivity gains. Technically be higher if someone. Who's to say that you couldn't? Because there's always the bottleneck of you having to perform the tasks that require your cognitive abilities. And what, um, Fred Brooks already identified is that it's not 90% of your time, um, that is spent on things you don't have to do that are that are accidental. Um. I mean, he wasn't thinking of an AGI system. He wasn't thinking of the kind of systems we have nowadays. Um. I don't actually know if he's still alive. I met him a couple of years ago, but I don't know if he's still alive. Um, I would love to. Asking this question what he thinks about no silver bullet about I. But, um, at least all of the people that I've talked to, um, in AI and and also, of course, in software engineering, do not believe that I will be a silver bullet, uh, until we reach AGI. Um, but why is this the case? Yes, David. Mhm. Yeah. I wouldn't see it as a tool then. I mean, if it if it can do anything a human can do, it's kind of like an AI worker, I would say. Or like an AI employee. Yes. Exactly. Right. Exactly. So yeah, this is basically kind of what Brooks was saying. So. So like as long as something is still kind of like a tool, not like a real developer, um, it will not reach a ten a10x productivity gain, I guess. Maybe, maybe the issue is like, are we maybe already on this scale where they become something like a, like a not so powerful but still a worker, right. Maybe that maybe that is kind of happening already. Um, so but yeah, we don't really see it in the numbers yet. At least not. Not yet. Um, maybe we'll see it in the numbers in a few years. We'll see. It's hard to predict the future, but why? What are the differences here? Why? Why are we not getting ten productivity gain with LMS? But why did we get ten productivity gain with a compiler? Oh, yeah. Yeah. Question. And I would just so like, you know. Work. Do you also? Not not not not runtime, not runtime, just development time. So how much? Um. Uh, so to develop, um, a specific new type of software, does it take us, uh, ten years or one year? That would be like a ten year put ten next productivity gain. Uh, and the the reason why compilers did achieve a ten x productivity gain is because, uh, every single high level Fortran statement kind of translated to about ten, uh, assembly, um, uh, instructions. But um, um, there was a really interesting property of a compiler that didn't it does not currently have that makes this possible because the De Len can write like thousands of lines of code for you in a few minutes. Right. Like it can do that. Um, but why is it not actually reaching a ten x productivity gain? Yes. The fact that you're translating for the. Exactly. So the the abstraction is sound for a compiler. If you wanted to, you could predict the resulting assembly statements or the the resulting machine code statements. But with Lyme's because they are non-deterministic and blackbox and kind of unpredictable. We don't really know what result we get. And because we don't know what result we get, we may get a result that we didn't expect. Right. You may not necessarily get exactly what we wanted. And if that is happening, then we, um, well, then we have to review it. Right? Then we have to make sure that we get what we want. We have to put additional effort into getting what we actually wanted, uh, that we would not have to do with a compiler, because the compiler always gives us what we asked for because it's sound abstraction. We understand what a compiler does. We have built high level, uh, sound abstractions of what a compiler does, and we, uh, we don't have to look at the assembly language anymore. We still sometimes have to looking at the code, look at the code. And I think, uh, until we've reached a point where let's have a very predictable nature, where you as a prompt know exactly what you will get. We will not, you know, reach the point where we don't have to look at the code anymore. Um, and so the remaining challenges in both cases have been requirements design and quality assurance. They still require human human intelligence because those are essential challenges. Um, and while we are seeing that development is speeding up. So we see we see a very high productivity gain in coding. We do not see the same productivity gain for those activities. We do not see any real productivity gain for requirements engineering. We don't really see any productivity gain for a quality assurance and design. Um, at least not the one that is important. Um, so this is why I believe these activities are much more durable skills than any of the development activities, because I think they will probably, um, remain challenges, at least for the foreseeable future. But, uh, let's be clear about this. I will have a very transformative impact on software development and already has. Uh, so the former CEO of GitHub, Thomas Tomeka, um, uh, he was kind of in charge of building the early version off of GitHub. Copilot says the evidence is clear. Either you embrace AI or you get out of this career. Uh, he interviewed a lot of developers, and then, um, uh, made a really interesting observation that I think, um, uh, is really important for you to know is that AI is, uh, not just cost reduction in practice. Uh, AI is enabling people to do more with less. Uh, this basically means that, um, what what is happening in practice is not that one developer who had like a 40 hour work week now has a 20 hour workweek. Uh, but that they get more, they ship more features, they get more work done. It is not necessarily obvious right now, um, how much this actually does translate to more products and more features. Uh, I've not really seen that happening at a, at a company scale, like, um, but I think we'll probably get there somewhat. And so he is basically saying time savings show up. But the real shift is ambition. Developers are raising the ceiling, not just lowering costs. And, uh, many of the traditional software engineering skills that are not just development, but the actual software engineering, their requirements and designed and quality assurance, they will still remain as important as they have. Uh, but there are a few new skills. We'll talk about them as well. Okay, quick overview of how lamps work, just in case you've not taken an eye class. So they kind of work as statistical parrots. Uh, but we have a pre-training phase where we, uh, basically train, um, neural networks on basically the entire idea of all code that is accessible to us, which is, of course, all open source code. Um, and uh, we basically try to predict the next token based on previous tokens. Uh, so the next token prediction is a somewhat very limiting factor that people in the field like, um, uh, Yann LeCun believe, um, make us reach the end stage of Alzheimer's very soon, and we have to go back to research and invent something completely new. Yeah, he advocates for embedding architectures as, uh, a much better approach for AI. Do you have a question? Okay. Um, yeah. And then after the pre-training stage, this is where now a lot of our efforts, uh, spend is post-training. So in Post-training, we kind of tried to fine tune the model often based on on labeled input output pairs. So encoding. This is why, uh, this is one of the reasons why coding is a is a task that, uh, LMS are incredibly good at because we have a lot of labeled data. We have a lot of, uh, leetcode problems. So we have a problem description, and then we have the exact most optimal solutions in all different languages. We have tickets and then we have pull requests that are labeled as, you know, they're implementing this ticket. So we have a lot of labeled data. But we can then show the model, uh, these labeled input output pairs and then fine tune the model based on these. We also can provide human feedback to some of the results. So we can use reinforcement learning to let developers rank, uh, the output of a coding agent in terms of how maintainable it is, how correct it is, how efficient it is. And, uh, when you are using ChatGPT, sometimes you see this where you ask a question and then it shows you two different answers, and it lets you rank which one is the best one. This is basically them using you as a free reinforcement trainer. Um. And then of course, the main reason why we train our LMS is that we can then run inference. We can prompted. We can use a natural language prompt, and in most cases, all of the state of the art tools have this nature as a non-deterministic inference approach, where we predict the most likely sequence of next tokens after the prompt. Um, and uh, this comes with some properties that are not necessarily trivial and not necessarily intuitive. If you don't really understand how this works, that if you ask the, um, model a question that shows up in the training data set quite often, let's say give me the most efficient and shortest Python implementation of Fibonacci. It will predict. It will give you this answer with incredibly high accuracy. Um, but will not necessarily be able to do this for tasks that have not shown up in the training data set as often. And um, that's that's really interesting. Um, um, artifact that we have seen, um, and, and photography where if you ask an LM to, to generate an image of a clock that shows the time, 525 until I think last month, you would never, ever have gotten a result that looks good in any way. Um, now, you do get, uh, decent results for this. Why? Why is it the case that those, um, um, do not actually, um, uh, look good? Any ideas? Yes. So what's the what's the bias in the training data set there? Right. So so photographers like to have good composition. So they have, uh, arms like this. They don't have arms like this. So when you look for analog clock. On Google Images you will only find. Examples where they are kind of like in this angle, right? Because we like those angles. We don't we don't ever see a clock where they are very close together. They just not part of the training data set. Um, so this is why this architecture is very strongly biased towards naturally producing the, uh, kinds of outputs that show up in the training data set very often. And you as an undergrad, uh, your whole job is to solve problems that have been solved a gazillion times in the past. That's the whole point of, you know, education that you learn the things that everybody else in the, in the field can do. And this is why when you prompt the model with things that you would like to be solved and why it has a very high likelihood of producing the correct result, the ones who jump into the real world. This distribution will change because then you, uh, you have paid to solve tasks that have not been solved that many times. Um, because you build on the skills you have developed. And, uh, this is why in practice, we see very different results for these models, as you may intuitively see, with the kind of problems that you may prompted with. And I like to use this metaphor, when you think of, uh, a LMS kind of like as a, uh, witness in a criminal trial, um, what kind of properties may a parrot have as a witness in a criminal trial? Yes. It's it's very likely to repeat things that have been said before. And, uh, fun fact they have actually been criminal cases that were solved with the help of pirates, uh, where mafia bosses had a parrot as a pet. And then the parrot was actually in witness protection to then quote things that have been said. Um. Um, so, like, this is this is not a completely made up situation, so it's very likely to repeat what has been said. What else? What are the properties do parrots meet? Yes. It's not really thinking about what's here. Uh, most common phrase. That was actually right. That's right. That's right. So it might repeat phrases either out of context or they were said many times before that don't really relate to the, uh, to the problem. Um, and then they may also just kind of like, quote, factually incorrect statements. Right. So you can have a parrot quote, something that was said. Uh, that is not true. Like, oh, he didn't do it right. Like, it could, it could quote that because it has heard this many times, but it might be factually incorrect. Um, it also just may make up some statements that, uh, just sound like, similar to, um. Things that have been said before. And this basically means it's useful in some cases, but not 100% trustworthy. Like you don't want to bet your life on on the pirate, um, solving your criminal trial. Um, and in some way, in some way, you want to think of an AI coding agent in very similar ways. So it's likely to repeat code that has been coded many, many times before. So if you have a problem, uh, that is very likely to be in the training data set, uh, you can very up with very high confidence, kind of trust that it does this very well. It might repeat some outdated code or code from a different context. So because it is strongly biased to older code because it has been trained on older code, uh, this means that it may hallucinate some API calls that don't exist, or it may hallucinate some, uh, old or insecure code that might include some buggy or insecure code because they have been in the training data set, and it might make up some calls to non-existent code. And you may say, is this still the case for like, opus 4.7 and GPT 5.5? Um, and having played around with ops 4.8, enough yet to make a claim about 4.8, but it doesn't seem to be much better than 4.7. So in the is. Yes. Yes, I did uh, experiences even on the highest thinking max level for all of them. They still they still have these, these properties that they make up codes that exist in code, uh, which, you know, kind of tells you how how much you want to trust them. Yes. That is true. And that brings me to exactly the next slide. Um, so yes, exactly that that model is kind of what you want to base on. You know, your next step of thinking and the next step of thinking is that we've now built AI models, uh, like, I guess, interaction ways between models that have a, um, chain of thought reasoning approach where they basically do not just purely repeat what has been said in the past, but where they go through, um, processes of thinking where they can use tools to actually look up the actual API documentation, where they can, um, use retrieval, augmented generation to um, um, uh, query information that then helps them reasoning about the problem, similar in a way how a human would. So, uh, just like, uh, some of you might perform better on an open book exam than on a closed book exam. Of course, I also performs better on an open book exam. Who has access to all of the information that it needs to make a decision? Uh, and yeah, so we're adding on onto this, uh, this powered coda where we're adding new capabilities, um, um, that make the model appear like it's thinking and reasoning. And it's kind of funny that even, like, the people who won two awards for AI are kind of disagreeing on whether we can call this reasoning or thinking, um, uh, Geoffrey Hinton, uh, famously believes that they actually do exactly what we are doing. Uh, while Yann LeCun is saying, no, no, they are not actually reasoning, they are not actually thinking. Um, so I don't feel like I'm in the position to agree with either of them to disagree with the other. These are just kind of different opinions, but, uh, it definitely appears like they are thinking and reasoning and, uh, and then we also this is where I think coding agents become incredibly important, who has, uh, generated code from like a chat interface from, like, uh, like chat, gpt.com or something like this. Who has generated code with a coding agent inside their IDE? Okay. About the same. That's good, that's good. Last quarter there was a difference. So I just wanted to make sure that people know. Yes, yes you can you can install those coding agents in your ID and they can read all the files, edits, files, run commands, run tests, inspect errors and then iterate. Uh, and this, this is what makes them so useful that they actually have access to all of the things that a real human would have access to. Um, and they're not just generating out of the blind. Um. Yeah, they can be run as like plugins into like vs code or uh, they can just run as a standalone application, like a codex or um, uh, oxide code. Um, I think the most valuable, um, skill right now is to understand how agent skills work. Uh, so agent skills is, uh, a somewhat new development that, uh, uh, anthropic has been leading on creating a lightweight, open format for extending agent capabilities of specialized knowledge and workflows. Um, so you can create a skill file. It's basically like a markdown file, uh, where you say, uh, where you give additional information and instructions to your coding agent. So you can, for example, say, um, whenever you write tests, follow these principles that I've learned in my 130 lecture on what is good test design. Um, you can basically put, uh, you can experiment with this. And I've tried this actually. Uh, so whenever I'm, uh, using coding agents, of course, for all of the lectures that I'm teaching, I have a skill file, uh, that, uh, tells the coding agent what a good test is. Um, and then you can basically make your coding agent a little bit smarter. It's not really giving it cognitive abilities that it did not have before, but it makes it reason through the problem in a way that you would like it to reason through. You can also, uh, give it some, um, some code so you can actually give it some, some tools that it can use. You can give it the Python file that then uses a specific, um, API to acquire additional knowledge. Uh, and then you can give it additional reference files and the nice architecture about skills that make skills so cool is that every skill has like a short description. That's just a few sentences. And every single coding agent just initially loads this, uh, short description into its context window. Uh, and then when it this short description tells the agent when it should use the skill, and then when it believes that this applies, then it loads the main skill named into its context and the main skill, and then tells the agent when to load additional reference files into the context, and therefore it minimizes the amount of context pollution. So you can define like hundreds and thousands of skills, um, without polluting the context. Yes. A chat log that you're going to be uploading that you'd like. Right. Well, you want to. You want to partition your agents in a way that is either, uh, optimized for, um. Context fragmentation or for input fragmentation of a task. Fragmentation. The different kinds of agent decomposition approaches. Uh, but, uh, so the goal of coding agents is not to have one agent that does everything. Um, uh, so these skills work in the most effective way whenever for every single task, they have to only like, uh, uh, actually load a small portion of all of the available skills into context, right? If for every single task they have to load or every single skill. It's basically just making your initial prompt shorter for you to type, but it's not actually helping the agent. But the agent can can autonomously decide which skills they need to apply. And when you when you design your your skills in a way where this is really helpful, then your, your, um, reducing the amount of context that they need, or at the very least, you're just saving yourself some typing because, uh, this is really interesting. So, uh, in fall, I asked, uh, a close friend of mine who is a senior ML engineer at Apple. So she is actually building, you know, AI tools at Apple, um, and using AI tools for doing that, of course. And asked her, uh, so when you have a task and you let it, like you do your death basically you in in few months, uh, work on the task or you ask AI to do the task in those and back and follow. So those are like now really outdated models. Uh, what is the difference? And she basically said, well, in terms of quality, they are very similar because the junior engineers just use AI. Anyways, um, in terms of speed, well, of course the AI is faster. Um, I don't have to go through the junior engineer, just pump the AI myself. Why? Why would I need to prompt the junior dev if I can just pump the AI myself? Uh, but the main difference between the junior dev and the AI was that when you give feedback to your junior dev, your junior dev is improving at a higher rate than the AI does. Uh, so right now, the only thing that makes you valuable to your senior engineer is your continual learning ability and your fast skill growth. Uh, which I think you should you should monetize. You should. You should advertise. You should make sure that this is really what makes you great, your ability to learn quickly. And I think college is a great, a great place to to focus on this skill, especially if you are still a junior, not a senior yet. You may want to use your last year for maximum, uh, learning how to learn. Uh, but I think, I think with skill files. Then, um, your senior def may maybe put the feedback they would give you in the skill file, and then maybe. Maybe I'm not needed anymore. I don't know. We'll see. We'll see. We'll see where this is going. Nobody really knows where this is going. So this lecture is maybe a little bit different from the others, because there's not a lot of empirical evidence. The empirical evidence that exists is highly outdated because it's older than three months, and everything that's older than three months doesn't really apply to the current models. Um, and it's also like I'm preparing you not for next week, but I'm preparing you kind of for next year, and that's maybe a little bit harder. But anyways, um. Okay, so when we look at vibe coding, vibe coding, of course, was coined by Andrej Karpathy, uh, who says there's a new kind of coding called Vibe coding where you fully and given to the vibes, embrace exponentials and forget that the code even exists. Um, and, uh, this is basically a development approach where you don't look at the code, where you just prompt the eye, and then you just ignore whatever code has, has happened. Um, and actually, uh, some friends of mine have done some, some research on vibe coding in practice, and they interviewed developers and, um, they found that a lot of developers are incredibly skeptical of vibe coding ever becoming a, uh, a true, uh, a truly effective thing. Because we are in practice, we are living in an environment where there are a lot of legal regulations. So, uh, let me tell you a story. Um, uh, two students in this class actually invited me to be a judge at a, um, hack for impact hackathon. Um, and, uh, most of the teams basically just completely vibe coded everything as probably for every single, uh, hackathon. Um, and then I asked them, how have you thought about accessibility of your product? It doesn't really look like it follows the VCG 2.2, a standard that is now the legal standard, uh, for most companies. And they were like, why were you talking about legal standard accessibility? Well, there are a lot of different legal restrictions that you have to know about as a professional engineer and that you I doesn't really know about. And so in the past it has been security. We kind of I feel like we reached a point where security may not necessarily be as much of an issue as it was, uh, just six months ago. Um, but I think, like accessibility, there are a lot of different things where like, the legal framework doesn't really allow you to just use the AI code because it will probably violate a lot of laws because it doesn't have any understanding of what it's doing. So they found out that a professional developers don't vibe, they control. Uh, they would like to work along age and not not vibe coding. And that that is very much what I also hear, uh, from my friends, a senior engineers at Google and Apple and Visa where they're like, we don't actually really trust these agents. We treat them the way how we would treat a junior engineer and, um, somewhat recent research. This was from last year. So again, this is more than six months old. So we may not necessarily know for how long it will remain true. But uh, a little bit more than six months ago, uh, Google published the Dora report where they, uh, put all of the research that they have, uh, seen on AI into a report. And, uh, the most interesting insight from this report has been that AI is not a leveler of skills like some CEOs of large semiconductor companies like to say, uh, but AI is actually an accelerator of skills, um, which means that high performing teams have strong foundational practice, uh, of receiving a much higher boost in their productivity as dysfunctional teams. So it amplifies high performing teams. And then it also magnifies the dysfunction of struggling teams. And this is also, um, this is also what, uh, Diane, um, was now a professor at UC Irvine. Uh, was a PhD student with me. Uh, has found out when, um, they ran kind of controlled studies and, uh, a Google where they, uh, found out that, uh, the productivity gain that the senior engineers are getting is way higher than the productivity gain that the junior engineers are getting. Um, and, uh, this basically means that the more skills you have, the more effective you are at with using AI. So if you don't have any skills, I will will let you become a programmer, but it will not let you become a good programmer. Uh, so to become a good program, you still have to build the skills of clean architecture. The good quality assurance processes like these really make, uh, teams thrive, while teams that accumulate a lot of technical debt and implicit documentation they actually, like, do not get anywhere with AI. And I think this is an insight that, um, I think a lot of students are not really aware of, um, that AI is not just, uh, improving your ability to, to be more productive, but it also depends on what skills you have. Um, so this is why I think paying close attention to the skills of clean architecture, uh, design and quality assurance is then what enables you to benefit the most from AI. And if you're still a junior and not a senior yet, this should this should motivate you to really pay attention all of the classes you're taking, because you want to maximize the skills that you have by the time of graduation, so that you can then amplify this with a higher factor. Okay, so what are the common challenges that arise from the use of AI? And I was I was debating with myself if I should still include this slide from last quarter because now myth, mythos, everything is kind of changing. But I think it's still important to look at kind of like the history of AI to understand what we may see in the future. So, um, uh, in a report from last year and a few years ago, they found out that AI generated code has caused serious security vulnerabilities and about 20% of the companies. Uh, so this one is from, uh, I think last year, I think this is the state of AI and security from that from 2025. Um, and there was a really interesting study. Um, that one is from three years ago. Okay. So this one is from three years ago, where they, um, but I think that the results will still somewhat generalize to some degree. So they gave developers access to an AI coding agent and let them write code. Um, and then they gave a control group no access to AI. And then they checked the security of the resulting code. And then they asked developers how they feel about the security of that code. And they found that developers who used I had, of course, a lot more security vulnerabilities in their code. Uh, but most interestingly, I think this is the most interesting. This is why I said I can make insecure, cool code feel deceptively secure. They ask them about how secure the code is that they generated, uh, and they were very, very sure that they wrote even more secure code than the other people without the AI, even though back then that was definitely not the case. And I think all of the existing models still have this property, um, and a GPT three style, a GitHub copilot study. Um, they I found that 40% of the code generated, uh, contained some security vulnerabilities. But let's talk about the elephant in the room. We've all heard of Cloud and Mythos. And in case you've not heard of Cloud Mythos, this is this mythical new AI model that, um, anthropic has developed and that, uh, according to their own reports, has found security vulnerabilities in every single browser, in every single operating system and is now let loose on almost all of the open source systems to find all security vulnerabilities and able to not just find them, but also autonomously exploit them. And this is why they have decided to not release the model, because they believe that if they were to release this model, it would basically make every single I.T system that we rely on instantly insecure. Um. I mean, nobody knows, right? That's like a group of, I don't know, like 150 companies that know whether this is a marketing scam or not. Uh, I don't think anybody of us who does, unless you have access to mythos. In which case, please feel free to share your experience. I don't think any of any of us knows, but I would. I would be surprised if the factual statements they've made about finding bugs are exaggerated. I would be very surprised if any of those factual statements would be, which may be the the sentiment that now security is solved. That may be exaggerated. Um, but I think. I think they found they found it like 15 year old security vulnerability in OpenBSD. Right. Which is an operating system that's specifically designed for high security. So if you have an AI model, finding a security vulnerability in a specifically security targeted system that has existed there for 15 years, then I feel like you have to kind of ask yourself, um, what that means? Yeah. Actually. Right. Okay. So maybe maybe every single bug they found cost them like, uh, like $5 million of compute, right. But a human may have potentially found it for less, but, uh, I think this brings us to this really interesting conversation. So when you look at these results and now you hear that there's, uh, there's a model that may or may not have some kind of narrow super intelligence and security, never super intelligence, meaning that for this specific task, it outperforms even the experts. Um, what? What? How does this change your perspective on on these facts and also just on AI models in general? So maybe to give you a thought on this and not now because of all of this research on security, I would guess anthropic has put a specific emphasis on security, but maybe they have not put an emphasis on other things. So okay. Talk about this with your neighbor. Um, I think this is a really interesting conversation. Maybe like a little bit more than 30s. Is it? Okay. What are your thoughts? Joyous. Yeah. You know, once and I. We'll probably see. System is probably pretty bad in. And so then, you know, most likely I can write more. Yes. I don't think that mythos was exclusively trained for security tasks. I believe this was maybe something they paid more attention to than others, but it wasn't designed. I think mythos was designed to be a general purpose tool, and then in the safety testing, they were just realizing that it can actually break out of every single sandbox that they've put it in. So this is a really funny anecdote that they're telling that they have these safety researchers and then put it in like sandboxes, and then they tell it break out of the sandbox. And then right after telling mythos to break out of the sandbox, the safety researcher left for lunch. And then in the middle of lunch, he got an email. Oh, I broke out, uh, and that I'm not sure if I'm up to date on this, but the last time I heard about this, they have still not found a sandbox that most of us cannot reach out of. So that is kind of I feel like I feel like that that implies a slightly different kind of call it a skill profile than what we've seen so far. Uh, but I if they, if they put like disproportionate amount of effort into security, then maybe it does not generalize these skills to other kinds of activities. That is certainly a good hypothesis. Yes. Like you mentioning this. Like the. Mhm. Mhm. Much more efficient to use in the um any system. And also um even though okay so I don't know if they're telling the truth, but even though um was it. Just like I saw it on YouTube. There's this. For ourselves. Hmhm decided to. Like that and you just go through that. Hmmi. Interesting. Interesting that. That's an interesting hypothesis. I've not heard this one before. I want to investigate this hypothesis again. Any other thoughts? Yeah. More cost effective. It just means that. It's going to cost a lot of. Things have that. Yeah. So I believe that with the newest generation of models, we will see them like change the prices dramatically. And then maybe, uh, maybe AI models will will be able to perform at the level of a junior dev, but then will also cost about the same as a junior def. And then maybe we will not actually see, uh, AI models completely taking over all of the junior dev jobs. Um, because there may be some, you know, at some point, there may be some legislation that restricts the use of AI models and know we're going to have some human devs of all age generations by the time that happens. Um, yeah. Five years of. Well, so far what we've seen. And, you know, again, there's no, no, uh, way to know whether this will continue to be the case. But what we've seen so far is that the skill level of AI has grown at a much faster rate than the skill level of any human. Uh, so if that were to continue, um, within our lifetime, then you would not need any senior devs in five years, because then I would have developed the skills of a senior dev of even more than a senior dev by then. Um, you know, nobody knows. I asked my colleagues who literally built these AI systems or like who do research on this, who are like very well respected researchers in the field, and they refuse to make predictions because they're like, um, like you can't predict the future. Um, so, um, anyways, um, any other thoughts on security? I think the interesting insight here, this is the one that I personally find the most interesting, is not necessarily whether these AI models are producing secure, insecure code. I think the most interesting insight here is that, uh, the participants believed that the code was of higher quality than it actually was. I think that's the most interesting insight, which tells you that you may want to be a little bit skeptical of the code that I write, because no matter what, um, level it will have. Um, you don't want to overestimate it. Uh, and that's been an amazing study, um, um, done by Courtney Miller, who, um, um, actually got to hooded with me a few weeks ago and is now an incoming professor at Georgetown University. Um, and, uh, what they've done actually is really funny video about this. I should definitely show you the video that they made about this. Uh, they looked at what is the impact of AI coding agents on the quality of code in open source systems? Um, and they started doing this with, uh, Crystal. Um, because you can look at the point in the, in the development history when Corso was introduced by looking at the course rules file and of course, the rules file was introduced and you know, that they started using cursor and then they looked at, uh, similar repositories that did not adopt cursor within the time frame. Um, and they saw that, uh, right after they introduced cursor, there was a massive productivity search. So development increased 3 to 5 times a number of code of lines added during the first 1 to 2 months. But after those 1 to 2 months and about 60 days, this is how long the productivity gain lasts. Uh, the productivity gain, uh, almost entirely disappears and at some point even slows down the development where in the end, the productivity is even below the point where it was before. Oh, I forgot to ask her. I should ask her. I'm gonna I'm going to send her a message and then ask her about whether they actually also interviewed the developers, what the reason was. I know they had a follow up paper on this where they looked at slightly newer models as well. Um, but what they found, uh, in the original paper was that. 30%. Uh, there was a 30% increase in static analysis warnings and a 41.6% increase in code complexity. So the code written by AI is incredibly un maintainable to a degree where, um, the code generated by I actually becomes a burden. So we like to say every single line of code you write is a burden on your future maintainability. So when you have this coding agent that just blindly writes code without really paying attention to the architecture. That's kind of a back thing. Um, and, um, you may get a like productivity increase in future. But if this harms your ability to then deliver new features, it may not necessarily be worth it. Uh, there is, of course, the disclaimer that this was done, uh, using, uh, empirical methods of time series analysis. Uh, which inherently only looks in the past, um, because you have to look at, you know, six months in the past, you have to write a paper about this. So this is this was not done with the newest generation of models. You can get that. It's like you're just tired. I did like a lot of. And then so like, I mean, I know this is like. It's like. And I was thinking that. I asked Courtney what quality assurance process she's going through to make sure that these, uh, 1300 process repositories are actually AI free. Uh, I'm pretty sure they went through an, uh, manual process for at least some of them to just see, um, because that's what blockchain would about debugging. Is the professor on this, on this team. And, uh, he in the community is widely regarded as the, uh, professor with the strongest empirical methodology. Uh, and they actually end up ended up making causal claims. So just like if Bogdan feels comfortable making causing causal claims, I'm pretty confident that they did. They did the right thing. But, um. Uh, I think the, uh, so the results that they are seeing here has all have also been been replicated in a few other papers. Uh, and I see them as well. So without providing specific skill files on writing maintainable code, this is exactly what I'm seeing. Like, it just puts CSS styles right into HTML. Like it doesn't even separate them. It's absolutely like I can like the the code that even the frontier models are generating for me now. I can't look at it, I get, I get, I can't. So I'm looking at them. Um, and there was also a, uh, a recent paper, uh, from March, uh, March this year. I think this is, I think this is the paper from March this year, um, where they also found that, um, more than 15% of commits from every AI coding assistant that they've studied around, you know, earlier this year introduces at least one issue, uh, either of code smells or security. And then 24.2% of these AI, uh, introduced issue issues still as visible in the latest version of the software. So it does make it into production and it stays in production. Um. So. So when you look at these, um, results, what do you think this does or this means for you as somebody who may become a professional software engineer? Okay. Talk to your neighbor. I think. That 50%. I think I could have what issues but compared to like humans. Mhm. That a 30%. Hmm. That's that's a good point. That's a good point. So Nathan was basically saying, well, what's the what's the percentage of commits of human authored changes that have the same kind of issues? And I don't know. Um, this is exactly the right question to ask. Like at some point it only really matters whether AI is, uh, you know, as bad as a human's. Uh, instead of making it as, um, uh, 100% reliable. And I think a good example of this is Waymo. Right. So Waymo, uh, does still have some accidents, right? There are still some accidents, uh, at Waymo, but, um, they occur much less frequently than with human driver. So if they compare Waymo of human drivers, a Waymo is actually much more much safer than human drivers. Um, so you may argue that then it would make it immoral for you to not put Waymo on the street if it's actually safer than than a human, even though it still does cause some accidents. Um, but that's of course, like the ethical question of May, it may cause issues of different kind. Right. So then that may be a different question. But I guess here we're not talking about killing people or like hurting people. So I guess here it's maybe but yeah. What are your thoughts on this? Anybody have thoughts on this? Yes. Yes. Assessing whether the current. Exactly. So you still you still need to care about the maintainability of your code. You still need to do some code review and things like that. Code review is not actually very good. Um, at least in these systems that they've studied. So all of these systems are open source systems that they may not necessarily follow all of the commercial software engineering practices and may be followed. Uh, that's what the companies. But there's also kind of this, uh, AI productivity paradox where, uh, you know, in the past, developers were coding two hours and then debugging six hours, and now ChatGPT generates the code in five minutes, but the developer spends 24 hours debugging because, uh, it actually takes a lot of time to make sure that you end up with a good code. And this is something that I think many of you probably will have observed at some point that getting an initial prototype, uh, is super fast, right? So you get, you write a prompt and then you are like 75% there, and then you're like, okay, let me write a new prompt to start from scratch, and then you're like, at 80%. And then you're like, okay, this looks better. We're making progress. We're making progress. Let me try this again. 85%. And then you try it again, and then you end up at around 90% there. And then you're like, okay, not now. I kind of give up, but you've actually, uh, spent the same amount of time that somebody may have spent to get that to, like, 100%. Um, so, uh, you want to you want to make sure that you're not doing that. Right? Because that is just, um, um, then you have bad code and you're not actually there yet. Um, but yeah, I think those those, those graphics may maybe change a little bit. Um. I think, uh, as a as an educator, the most interesting insight from AI research has been on how AI impact skill formation. And there was this amazing paper earlier this year by anthropic, uh, where they did a, uh, a controlled experiment. They basically let, uh, developers, uh, solve the same tasks with AI and with ODI, um, and, and then ask them some questions on the libraries that they were supposed to use. Um, and it turns out that most participants who used the AI performed way worse. Uh, the, uh, question of, uh, things they should have learned in this task than. A developers who were not using AI because they just use what we call cognitive offloading. So they let I do all the work and then they, uh, they were done with it. Um, they were more productive. They get the tasks done quicker, but they didn't build any skills. And we just heard earlier that skill formation is the only thing that still make it super valuable in this economy. So even as somebody who leaves college this year or actually this month, um, and then goes into the real world, I think this these insights are interesting because you are still in the phase of building skills rather than purely just becoming productive. And the most interesting insight in this paper, even though this was like with, uh, very small sample size, uh, this does this is consistent with non-coding, um, tasks, much larger skill size is that there is an interaction approach that you can use with AI, that it gives you the productivity gains while also still increasing your skills more than you may have even without a high, uh, which is the contextual inquiry approach in which you treat AI not as a junior dev, but you treat AI as a to you ask AI questions. Can you please explain how I can do this very effectively? And then you get the benefit of all of the AI search capabilities. It will look up all of the best approaches for you, and it will teach you these approaches. And then you can actually perform the task much faster than the person who, who did not, uh, have that that input. So you are still higher. You guys still have more productivity than the person who didn't, you say? But you also increase the skill. So the, uh, you are way of interacting with AI matters more than whether you interact with it or not. Yes. What I. Hmm? Do you know what? Well, since it was done at anthropic, I would assume that they use the frontier model of anthropic at the time, and they conducted the study. Um. Other questions. Okay. How does this impact your approach to working with AI? Talk to your neighbor. Okay. Any insights? Anybody want to share some thoughts? Yeah. Well. I like riding. Like homework for that. I'm like. Yep. It really won't help. They won't even answer my. Exactly. So you can actually write a skill file for this and then, you know, activate the skill file. Yeah. That is true. Uh, but I think, uh, so what we are seeing as well as that AI does accelerate your acquisition if you use it the right way. Um. Um. Yes. It's not. It's not all bad. It's just you have to. You have to be very deliberate about the way how you how you use it. So the the key takeaway from all of these previous slides have been that in the hands of an expert, AI is a very, very powerful tool. But in the hands of a novice, it creates the illusion of competence. Uh, that creates more problems than it solves. Um, so this is really how you want to approach. I want to show you an approach. I, as somebody who can either teach you a specific skill or somebody who can do the work for you that you are already to. Uh uh, to advance, to solve yourself. You kind of want to get just get it done, right? That's right. That's right. That's why I'm not saying that you shouldn't use I. I'm, I'm basically just saying you want to you want to make sure that you use AI in a way that is, uh, responsible for the kind of task you are doing, uh, and is, um, uh, and is is focusing on your skill formation. Um, because I think as a, as a young adult, uh, many people underestimate, um, the impact that skill acquisition has on their whole long term career. Um, so this is kind of like, uh, the power of compounding. When you're thinking about investing, right? The earlier you start investing, the, uh, the more time it has to pay off. Uh, and I think with skills is exactly the same thing. So we are seeing that, um, AI has a very high Magnus effect, not Magnus effect. Since something else of m effect. Uh, well, um. The ones who have many skills benefit from more than the ones who have fewer skills. So you want to make sure that you are on this side of the curve that benefits, right? Um, and I think staying on that end of the curve will will become harder and harder. The more I is progressing. Um, and, um, yeah, I mean, like, uh, last week, uh, my friend's company went public on recursive self-improvement. And I feel like once we have reached recursive self-improvement, we'll just have a fast takeover scenario with a nobody will ever be able to catch up. Um, and I'm not really sure how a society would look like that that does this. Um, but I guess. Yeah, I guess that's not what this lecture is about. Uh, this lecture. Let's maybe take a quick break two minutes and then we're going to use talk about how to use AI the right way. Yes. Like the way to make. I. More predictable and more predictable. Yeah. The purchase of. Well, that's kind of the that's kind of the question, right? Is the basic premise of AI that it that it solves new problems that we couldn't solve. What is the purpose of AI and that it just helps us solve the problems more efficiently than we already know how to solve. And I think both both kind of makes sense, but. Yeah. Probabilistic. Happy peaceful injection. This this. Interesting. Okay. This is interesting. Something for everybody. So there is actually a different kind of security concern now for people who use AI coding agents. It's called prompt injection attacks where people deliberately put dangerous, uh, recommendations of what to do, like basically like Stack Overflow. And they put deliberately dangerous. They put attacks in this instance so that if a coding agent is just searching the web and then it finds your answer, then it will then execute the code, or it will run the shared command that then opens a security backdoor to your system. And then the attacker can exploit this. Um, and this is why you should not, uh, run, uh, cloud code or Codex on just auto mode, right? Because, um. I think that in their most recent releases, like maybe 1 or 2 weeks old. They introduced a system where they kind of monitor the commands, and then the agent is trying to run, and they basically run some security checks on the command using, you know, as a judge, um, to check whether these commands are safe or unsafe. Um, but they also just kind of limited by the ability of the LM to judge whether the command is safe or not. Um, I have not heard anybody intentionally putting bad code out there to slow down the progress of of of AI learning. Um, um, I think that is probably not. But I mean, like. So there's this there's this question that I talked about with Lewis a few months ago or maybe a year ago. Well, um, I asked him, so if I then generates all of the code and then I is putting this code online. Then the next day I will just be trained on the bad AI code. Um, and then we will never, ever get better at coding, right? We as humans, we have the ability to to evolve. But I, at least right now, doesn't really have that skill yet. Uh, and his his opinion on this is that using reinforcement learning, we can kind of, uh, compensate for these, uh, artifacts so we can still make progress on AI even if our data quality is not improving. Um. Yeah. Right. They are kind of bottlenecked by your ability to provide feedback and also by your ability to, um. Yeah. I mean, there are also people like Laocoon who say that just the the need for having reinforcement learning is a sign that our current architecture is not very good. Um, yeah. I'm not an I'm not an AI research, so I'm not really qualified to add much to that conversation besides just, you know, quoting people who are much smarter than me. Um, but let's talk about the the software engineering aspect of AI. So now we have this we have this, uh, statistical parrot that is producing code at an incredibly high rate. Um, and, um, what do we do? Well, we can treat it the same way as we treat a pet program. Um, so in the, um, XP lecture, I told you about pet programing, and you may want to treat I kind of the same way. Right. You want to treat AI as the programmer who is building the code, the system with you, not for you. Um, and there are two ways how you can use it. One is that, um, you are the you are the driver. You write the code. This is this is what I, I generally recommend, uh, students when they are working on homework assignments. Right. You want to you want to be the driver. You want to solve all of the homework yourself, right? Uh, but then you want to use AI to improve your skills. Right. That's the whole point of AI that it can accelerate your skill growth. It can give you direct feedback on the things you've done. Then you can ask AI to critique your code. You've you you're ready to submit your code. And then you ask AI to critique your code and give you feedback that you would have needed to wait like a week for the To. And maybe the To is not giving as good feedback as the AI because the Da is busy. Um, and then you can ask for suggestions to improve the work that you've built yourself. I think this is a very good way to interact with AI, especially in a teaching environment. Um, and then there's also AI is a navigator. Uh, this is the way how, you know, most of my, my friends in industry are using AI. Uh, where AI is then writing the code and, um, they, of course, want to still be in charge. They want to make sure that they understand the code, critically review all of the AI generated code and ask AI to explain the code. So these are all nice things that I can do. Um, where you can, um, use their, uh, ability to, um, uh, have infinite patience with you. Uh, so you can, for example, then when you are the driver, you can say, scan this code for potential problems, evaluate this code and look for performance issues. And when you are the navigator, explain the algorithm you use for this method. Now this this is this is kind of how you how you get around the the skill acquisition part. When you are the navigator. Right. That you then let I teach you what it has done and explain it. Um, uh, this this is not as effective as the using it as a to, but it's almost as effective. Um, and, uh, if you've done, uh, sorry if you've done pet programing with humans before, you know, using AI this is similar way is very, very intuitive. Questions about this. Yeah. This really depends on, um, the, um, the quality you need. This really depends on the how likely the code is going to be in the training data set. This this really depends on your quality assurance process. Um, so um, I'm going to turn off the microphone so I can say this off the recording. Um, if you if you have very good tests, then you can you can, you know, let I have a lot of bugs. This is this is why I think, uh, thinking about quality assurance and, uh, not just purely as testing, but also, um, um, as, uh, uh, as a very large activity that you focus more of your time on. And I think, um, um, you want to, um. Yeah. This this is why this is why we teach testing a lot. Um, I think there are also a few other techniques you can do and, and verification and static analysis, um, that haven't really reached the point where I think they are production ready, but, um. Yeah. Anyways, um. Cool. Let's move to the next part. So you want to treat AI as a knowledgeable intern? Um, I'm Mark Cuban, one of the sharks from Shark Tank. Uh, said AI is kind of like a drunk intern. I think for coding, it's more like a knowledgeable intern in the sense that AI has access to basically all of the knowledge in the world, but it doesn't really know how to apply this knowledge. Right? It has access to it, but it doesn't know how to apply it. And then, uh, your job is basically to, uh, orchestrate these skills. You have to tell AI when it should, uh, use these skills. You have to say, now, you should, uh, uh, work on this subproblem. Then I should work on that subproblem. Now, you should use all of your skills on, um, on architecture. Now, you should use all of your skills on testing. Um, and. Yeah, so you basically want to iteratively prompt AI instead of letting AI one shot the problem. Um, you want to split the prompts into separate several sub prompts where you define the problem and the high level strategy, and then you pick the overall architecture and design patterns and component into actions. Like, this is why I think these skills are so important, because once you've acquired these skills, you can then instruct AI to use the skills that you have already developed. But if you don't know what a design pattern is, you don't know that the observer applies, that you can tell a AI to apply, uh, the observer design pattern. So this is why I think you can you can use all of these skills quite effectively. Uh, and then yeah, before code generation, this is, uh, basically kind of like the manual plan mode. Uh, or you want to use plan mode if you are, um, if you are, uh, harness has a plan mode, you basically want to ask it to explain it suggested approach and receive some feedback before you start implementing it, because in many cases you want to um. Uh, inject some feedback before before I start to, uh, write like a thousand lines of code. So instead of saying implement a monopoly board game, you say implement a monopoly board game with the player being a state pattern. Uh, before you write the code, first show me a class diagram. And it's incredibly good at understanding UML because UML has been a really large portion of its training data set. Like I know since, um, probably better than anybody in this class. Um, so, um. It will be able to produce a class diagram, and then it will be able to very accurately implement the class diagram that is shown. And now that we've taught you class diagrams, we have taught you an interaction mechanism with AI that is at a higher level of abstraction. That is then again somewhat sound, right? I think this is this is why I think teaching UML and in software engineering class is very important, because it enables you to build a solid abstraction of the code and then let I, um, let you talk to AI on this higher level of abstraction. So instead of reviewing a million lines of code, you just review the class diagram and you're like, this is exactly the design I wanted. Please implement this for me. And then, uh, you make sure that you have correct tests and you put you pay attention on the tests. Um, yeah. So this is this is my recommendation, how you would interact with AI when you have to write a lot of code because your boss asks you to write a lot of code and then, uh, yeah, interact with AI in a way. And this is maybe a I should maybe get this on slide the next time I teach this class. You should interact with AI in a way that allows you to have confidence in its understanding of the solution. And, um, models are a great way to do this because, um, you know how models work because you've taken this class. AI knows how to how these models work. Because I has learned it in the training phase. Uh, so you share this, this, this abstraction with AI and whatever problem you are solving, you want to think about what are these shared high level representations of the problem that I can use to interact with AI? So models are one for software, but, you know, there are a lot of others for other purposes. Um, questions about this. Okay. Yeah. And then after you reviewed the class diagram, you say, okay, now implement this, you should use react and TypeScript and you should use playwright for end to end test. And just for test doubles you want to kind of give these recommendations. Yeah. Like this is more of say in terms of your use of. Like you. Just like, say you want to give it this like the. Because, like, I think it's fine. I mean, it's because it's safe to me. Like, every time I tried to write test cases. Yeah. I mean, for blackbox testing. I mean, if your intention is to write black box tests, you have to use what's called, uh, test driven generation. We'll get there. Look at that. Look at that. Okay. Uh, so this is a this is a, uh, uh, a vibe coding activity that I ran in the fall where I was basically like, uh, do this, and, um, I already spotted the issue in the class diagram, but I want you to spit the code. Spit the URL, uh, spot the spot the issue and the resulting code. Okay. What what mistakes that copilot made in the code that it wrote. Talk to your neighbor. Practicing your code review skills with AI generated code. Who spots one of the two issues? There are two issues. One is more severe than the other. Who found one of the issues? Yes. So when they're actually. And what's the issue there? Um, well, the player could have not. They're just like. It's like an independent. Okay, well, it was your answer. Um, I was talking about the random and before the fact that it's under the fair rules that I. Okay. These these are exactly the two issues. Let's talk about the import first because this is easier. So yeah usually the convention is for your import to be like on top of the file. So you don't want to just randomly import files here. And so when when copilot gave me this I asked who is white. Why is this the case. And Luis was kind of joking. Well it has been trained on too many, too much code of AI researchers because the AI researchers always do this. Um. Um, so you should not do this, right? You should not put an import just somewhere randomly in the code. Um, but yeah, the other issue is, of course, that there is something wrong with random. And what is wrong with random? Yes. This is. That's right. What's the probability of rolling a double with two dice? Exactly one over six one sixth. It's not 50%. Right. So this is a good example. This is old right. But this is a good example of I just making some linguistic connection. Like w there must be something of two. Huh. Maybe 50%. Um, uh, where I doesn't really understand, um, the real world. And you have to, um, make sure you check this. So. Yes. Okay. So the solution there would be to, um, uh, what would be the solution? Yeah. It should, it should return a pair and then check if the double was rolled right instead of the roll dice just returning the result. That's just the sum. Uh, well, of course they should return a, like, a pair, and then you check whether they are the same. So this is then the fixed code where you can then, uh, prompt the eye and say, okay, this should return a pair and then it fixes, uh, these issues for you. So this this I mean, again, to be fair, this was, uh, like a free copilot in fall, so this would probably not happen again. But, um, you will run into issues like this for the kind of professional tasks that you are working on. And you, you want to make sure that you are, um, you're aware of these actually reading the code? Yes. Oh, no. Question. Okay. Okay. Uh, yeah. So I think, um, for professional code and, uh, Kevin, actually book and I will be teaching a class on this, and, uh, in winter and spring. So if you're still around in winter and spring, you want to learn more about this. We're going to teach an entire 188 generative software development class on this, um, uh, for professional code. We still recommend you to review the code to adopt, uh, always if you generate a code, um, um, a mindset whenever you are having a different hat on, when you are not the developer, but when you are the customer, when you're building, uh, when you're using AI to build a product for you, not for, uh, the company that you work at. Uh, you can skip this rule, but, uh, as when you're the developer, of course, you want to you want to be code review as well. So the explainability will never commit AI generated code that you should not, uh, could not comfortably explain to a teammate. I think if you use these rules, you will you'll build skills and you will you will not produce more bugs then, uh, any other human. Of course. Maybe in a in a professional environment context, they may ask more of you, but. You know, this will be my recommendation. Um. Yeah. So, um. I basically reproduces a lot of the code smells. Um, and, uh, it doesn't necessarily have the same kind of understanding of the world that you have. If I told you this story already, but there was somewhat recently this meme of asking I, um, um, the car wash as five minutes away, should I drive or should I walk? And then I always saying, well, you should walk because, uh, it's so close. But I not knowing that the reason why I want to go to the car wash is because you want to wash the car. Yes. I think this has to do a lot with developed a blueprint. I can feel it in my heart that something is wrong. Yeah. Again. Explain this part to me. Mhm. I feel like you can't really do that if you don't. Exactly, exactly. So that's this nice thing from the pet programing. You can be a navigator if you've not been a driver, right? You can't really be an advisor to AI if you don't really know how to do it yourself. So this this is why my recommendation is for you to build the skills and then supervise AI from a position of strength, rather than from a position of weakness. Um. Um, because this is the professional way to do this, right? Um. But, uh, maybe asking this in a different way. So let's assume you have this teammate who is completely unreliable, always produces bad code. Always has bugs in the code. Maybe some of you may or may actually think of a real person now. Uh, but in case you're not thinking of a real person, uh, this does kind of sound like AI, right? So how would you solve both problems in the same way? Right? At some point, you will work with a human who is maybe not as reliable. Um, uh. And you will definitely work with AI that is not reliable. So what? What are the software engineering techniques that solve both of these problems? Talk to your neighbor. I think this is maybe a short one. Okay. What's the answer? Elliot. Fix the code. To fix the code. You first have to know that there is an issue. And that means you have to find the issue. You know that there are probably going to be some issues. But how do you find the issues? Yes, lots of tests. Exactly, exactly. Lots of tests. So you have learned test driven development, uh, where you write the tests first and then maybe the unreliable person who writes the code is actually yourself. Right. So test driven development guides you against the bugs that you write yourself and also go to against the bugs that, uh, I may generate. Uh, so you want to first write the tests and then prompt the AI to make the test pass. This is this is not trivial to come up with a prompt that does this very effectively. In my experience, this one works somewhat well. So I am using TDD. Implement a general solution that passes test X, do not change the test. So there are two very important things here. You have to instruct ie not to change the tests, and you have to instruct AI to come up with the general solution. So Kent Beck, the inventor of TDD, has been of course using AI with TDD. Um, and he found that at some point I just started. We have a lot of test cases, and I will just create a dictionary where for every single input, it will then store the output, and then it will look up the dictionary. And this will pass all the tests. Right. Um, this is why a general solution should be part of the test, or it will just change the test. We'll just remove the test. Right? Of course, if you remove the test, that's the old that's the easiest way. How you make the test pass. As it does, remove the ones that are failing. Um, and this is again where you want to you want to review the code to just make sure that it's not this big dictionary. And then it did not remove the, the test. Um, and in test driven generation there is also some research, um, and that shows that just purely providing the lamb with a test during the code generation improves its correctness. Um, so if you're just saying, okay, here are some tests. Uh, please implement this feature instead of just saying implement this feature. Having the tests will actually increase the, uh, the the correctness. Uh, and in test driven generation, this is kind of different from the test, purely test driven approach. Uh, you actually basically forced the idea of test driven development onto AI itself. So then you prompt AI first to generate tests for a given specification. This is how you get around the black box. You basically let it run, generate the black box test before it generates the implementation. Um, and then of course, this is the most important part. You carefully review the tests to check if they are adequate for the specification. So in test driven generation you spend most of your code review on the tests, right. You just want to make sure that the tests are actually what you want. And then you ask it to generate that implementation. And then maybe ask AI to also reflected the code. Again, activate the skill, activate the refactoring skill. It will not do it automatically. It will generate bad code. And then you ask it to to refactor the code. It will probably reflect the code somewhat. Okay, because there are tests, you know that it doesn't break it, and then you review the generated implementation to see if it somehow overfit the tests. If there are no dictionaries, basically, um. And this approach has been working somewhat well for a lot of people in practice. Um. Um, I think for most of the professional scenarios that I know of, um, people are a little bit more careful. But, you know, again, they also. People at large financial companies that basically do this. Um. Also, you want to, um. Um, be aware that when you are using AI, you are actually in the role of the senior engineer, and then AI is the junior engineer. So you are still fully responsible. Your code. Your job is to read and verify the code and make sure that you are, um, you're understanding what it does. And this is this is again why I don't think that, uh, will will reach ten next productivity any time soon because, uh, for you to be in the role of a, of a, uh, senior engineer without having the experience of being a senior engineer, because you've not gone through all of the, uh, skill building activities yet. That usually would lead someone to become a senior engineer. Um, it's just not, you know, uh, it's just not happening at the same quality level. So if we want to have the same quality level, we just are not going to get ten. I mean, we can this is kind of what the prime engine always says when, when, when people are saying, well, 90% of the code is written by, well, you know, 90% of the bad 100% of the bad code is written by AI, but only 10% of the good code is written by. Um, well, just by writing more code, you're not necessarily becoming more productive. Um. But yeah. So you want to basically assume that, uh, AI has not taken 130 and does not know how to design and test high quality software, but you have. So you can you can guide AI through this process by saying, okay, now we write the tests. Now we implement the code. Now we think about architecture. Now we think about these design patterns. Um, so you are in a, you are in a row of uh, you should develop this kind of supervisor mentality rather than a, oh, I already knows what it does work its way smarter than me anyway, so I don't even want to, uh, deal with this. Uh, so research has shown that people who develop a mindset where they, um, believe that AI is just super smart and we're better than them. They are not going to use AI the right way. So if this is the mindset that you currently have, um, a it's it's like objectively false in, uh, in sense of cognitive abilities, maybe it will have some knowledge, maybe they will have some specific skills, but overall it's it's false. But even if you if you employ this specifically for coding, um, uh, you're not interacting with either right away. So you want to you want to get rid of that mindset. You want you want to develop a mindset where you are the person who is responsible and was in control. Okay. How do you believe AI is impacting? How does software architecture affect the effectiveness of AI coding agents? What would be your guess? So we've looked at a few software architecture principles. What would be your guess how this impacts? Yeah. Well. Specifically. It's like, you know, almost like, you know, how you feel is. Sure. Arkansas software. Okay. Uh, I guess I should rephrase the question. So if, uh, if I were to give I a task, um, and then, uh, I have a good architecture and a bad architecture. Which one? Which which architecture would I perform better at? The task. I guess I kind of give the answer. We already. Why? Because I'm assuming that's just. That I disagree with. I think most architectures are better. Yes, you do like. If you're just. If it's how did you choose? Like about architecture? Goes home or whatever. It's really hard. No matter. Um, after your initial build. Um, you know, as you stand on. So if you don't start with the right. Mhm. It's kind of like. That makes sense. Uh, okay, maybe I should. We face this. Or maybe we don't really have the time to go into this into much detail, but, um. Uh, so the insight is basically everything we've come up with, uh, on software architecture, like, information hiding. Um, uh, things that are designed to reduce the cognitive load needed to understand the problem and make effective changes. Right. So this basically means, uh, that we design our system using information hiding so that people only have to look at this code to change this. People can make changes here without knowing all of this. Uh. And. Surprise. Same thing works with AI. Well, if the human doesn't have to look at a million lines of code, well, then also the AI doesn't have to look at a million lines of code to make this change. So if you design your architecture in a way where you, uh, implement information, hiding this works for humans in AI in exactly the same way. And this has also been been shown, uh, in, uh, uh, in empirical evidence. So, uh, Google has, uh, conducted a study where they looked at nearly a thousand developers at Adidas. Uh, and the teams of loosely coupled architectures had more productivity gains from AI. So they've got like 20 to 30% productivity gains. And then teams with heavily coupled systems had no or little benefit from AI. Um, surprise. Um, good architectures, AI helping with your code. So thinking about information hiding is really important. And because again, I doesn't think about information hiding it's really bad at evaluating information. That's a skill it doesn't have because this is not in the training data set. There's no like information hiding evaluation data set anywhere. Um, this is this is where your your skills come in. Uh, this is why I love, uh, emphasizing information hiding in this class. Because I think this is a skill that over the next few years, will define your success. Because if you think about information hiding, then you can generate more code with AI. Um. And so when we look at what are the coding tasks where AI is performing? Well, well, um, for uh, accelerating, uh, straightforward, repetitive tasks and writing all of the boilerplate, of course, use AI, uh, for well-defined problems and plans. Uh, if you know how to specify a problem very well, it can probably do it very well. Uh, for writing tests, refactoring, writing documentation, simple debugging tasks. It's really good. Uh, it's not very good. And anything that requires a deep understanding of the business logic and domain, it's not very good at complex and stateful tasks because the reasoning capabilities are limited and it's generally not very good at, uh, performance critical or high stakes or high security critical situations, though this may this may be changing with more model, with fewer models. I think this is this one is changing before the other ones are changing. Um, and then anything that requires real system thinking, uh, like new architectures because these are things that, um, I don't know, they're not part of the training data set. I don't think we're getting we're getting there. Uh, before AGI, I may be wrong. Last quarter, I made the prediction there will not get to, uh, AI being as good at humans at security. And then a few weeks later, mythos came out, and, uh, maybe I should stop making this predictions because the opposite is always coming true. Um. Yeah. So the ideal use case for AI, uh, is tasks that are tiresome to solve, easy to verify, and with the cost of the agent being wrong is low. Uh, I guess everybody knows that this is not how it's used at every single company. Um, but, you know, this is this is what the responsible use of AI would look like. Um. And, uh, yeah, there are a few prompting patterns that I think you should know about. Uh, in general, if you tell AI, if you give a specific role, act as an expert software engineer. Uh, it will do this, uh, more effectively. Um, this is because it will correlate this with, uh, values in its input data, set in its skills, and then it will apply the things that will be correlated with good and expert. Um, I think the first time this came out, this was like such a big shock, it was like, wow, if you just tell a a good engineer, it will be a better engineer. Uh, like, that's kind of weird, but I think it makes sense. You say you have expertise in Python, uh, and then you give it a concrete task. So you say this is the task, so you give it a role and give it a task. And then very important, you give it context. The more useful context to give AI, the better it performs. Just like a human. There is a point where too much context is polluting the context and it becomes, uh, not useful. But yeah. Um. I have a I have a prompt engineering skill that I use for like really important things where I'm like, this is what I want the I to do. Please use the prompt engineering skill to draft to a specific prompt for this. I mostly just use it for like skill files or like for for the Gemini prompts. Um, that I put in. But, um, I don't know. I mean. My opinion is that prompt engineering will be a thing of the past in, in, uh, in here, because I think from the engineering working is a sign that lemons have limitations that will be easily overcome with skill files. Um, but you want to think of prompt engineering more as a, as a applied requirements engineering. You want to think of prompt engineering more from a perspective of how can I describe my requirements in a way that is specific, where I tell AI all of the important success criteria? Well, this is why we teach invest. This is why I would teach you writing, uh, clear and precise acceptance criteria so that you can put these user stories in AI. Putting user stories in AI is really effective because I know user stories. It has read gazillion user stories. Um, and if you follow invest, you will get uh, you will get there very, very fast. Um, I love working with design decision prompts where I tell my problem and then ask it, can you please describe the pros and cons of different design alternatives? This is my favorite way of interacting with AI. Um, because I can go search all of the different resources, uh, that I may not have access to. So I'm using AI ability to very quickly process West amounts of data and, and documents. And then I make the decision, um, instead of asking it, should I use the design pattern? I ask it, what are the common consequences of using the design pattern if I've not, uh, learned this as well? And then you, of course, your job is making the decision yourself. Question prompts are amazing. Um. You ask AI to ask you relevant questions to the task. So you like, before you start the task, ask me any questions you have about important decisions and requirements. I love these, uh, design this question prompts because, um, there are a lot of things that you may not think of that I will ask you about that. Then make, uh, make it less likely that you have to do it over again. Uh, another prompt would be before you start the task, ask me. Ordered? Yes. No questions. Absence will do this automatically. Um. Some that will not. And then a the favorite prompting technique of my senior ML engineer friend at Apple is the replace to do with prompt pattern, where she points to dos in the code. She does not put the tasks in the prompt, she puts the tasks in the code. This is how she keeps track of the architecture. This is how she makes sure that AI puts it in the right place. Um, she says fill in. She's basically putting in the interfaces, and then she lets I define the implementation by just putting to dos in there. And then she says resolve all remaining to DOS. And that file, um, ask me before making changes to other code. Right. Maybe I may have to make some change that I didn't anticipate. Um, so this this is working really, really well. Um, uh, for my friends and industry, um, in general, the new skills that you will need in AI, actually, the old skills. So now that development is not the bottleneck anymore, for the past few decades, development has been the bottleneck now. But now it's not the bottleneck anymore. So now we don't have to build skills on development. We should focus more on delegation and agent orchestration, verification and quality control, product engineering, product understanding, requirements engineering and specification, architecture and system design. And surprise, surprise, most of those are the focus of this class. Um. That's not a coincidence. Yeah. So, uh, people say the future belongs to developers who can model systems, anticipate edge cases, and translate ambiguity into structure. Skills that I can't. I don't remember who said this was some. Oh, oh, this was this was the GitHub CEO. This was the GitHub CEO. Oh, we don't have the thing anymore. Um, well, the, um, password is skills, and guess I don't have to put it on the board because I guess everybody knows how to spell skills. Um. But is a capital S skills because I think I think I without skill files. His last decade as last last year. This year. This is the year of skills. And also because you should focus on your own skill growth. So focus on the skill growth of your eye using skill files and focus on your own skill growth. And if you stick around UCLA for another year, then. Um. These are exactly the kind of skills that Carrie and I will be focusing on. And, um. And of course.