[Auto-generated transcript. Edits may have been applied for clarity.] Lecture slides. Um, and by the way, I did create a Java tutorial for you folks. Um, so I hope that. Everyone who is not super familiar with Java yet, um, had the time to quickly go through this. Uh, it will actually automatically infer, uh, UML diagrams from your code. Which, um, I hope will help you also understand UML a little bit better. Um, because, yeah, it's actually not that hard to automatically infer class diagrams from code. It's actually really easy. Um. Okay, one more minute and then also ready for. Okay, then let me start the recording. Okay. Um, yeah. Let's look at this code example and critique it from the perspective of information hiding. Okay. Talk to a neighbor. And we're going to give you, let's say two minutes. I mean, we quickly walk you through this quote. So we have a mortgage calculator. In the main method it. Um, yeah. It creates the interest objects and the calculator object. Um, and then the calculate payment looks like this. So the calculate payment, uh, takes principal and annual rate in years and is then formatting this. The format function looks like this. So it takes the amount in the mortgage and then uh does some rounding. Um the print function looks like this. So it prints to system out the annual interest rate, uh, format. Um. And then we we do the math over. Um. The interest. Okay. Yeah. Look at this code and ask yourself what secrets are hidden and what secrets are not hidden. Okay, I'll kind of go back and forth on this code, and we'll start the timer again on two minutes. Talk to your neighbor. So you want to think about what a potential change us they could have happen in the system that would require you to, you know, change a lot of different modules. Oops. Okay. What are your thoughts? What, uh, secrets that are hidden. What, uh, what a secrets that are not very well hidden. Who has an has a suggestion? Yes, Elliot. You could want to have a different. Like the one thing I like to. What kind of different calculate payment do you think might make sense to have? What what kind of different calculate payment would would make sense? Or what kind of change request could happen that requires you to update the calculate payment option? Oh, maybe just like. Something that might be quite common to happen is that instead of monthly, uh, interest. So here we have monthly interest. Maybe we might have, uh, biweekly interest, which is what you want to say. Okay. Monthly if like at some different interval. Right. Yeah. So if, if payments are not due monthly if they are just you let's say twice a year or maybe if they do actually twice a month. Uh, yeah. So if the interval of the payment changes then this has to change. And also if the interval at which the interest accrue is changing. Yes, it seems inflexible. And if, uh, you're not, well monthly. When in mortgage. You don't really have leases, right? Oh, well, I guess. What did you. Uh, yeah. No, I. Yeah, yeah. So they have the annual interest rate on your on your mortgage. Uh, and then yeah, you have to divide this up because we. Yeah. Yeah. This might be something super big, but I thought it was kind of strange that the print function calls. Yes, that. Something out of scope or just like a. Yep. Why is that? Right. Call me elsewhere. Yeah. You might. One and a half. Yeah. No dependency from the print function to the domain function. Right. You might want to have a different class that is then calling print. Yeah. Exactly right. These are all amazing thoughts. So yeah, we've talked about some of the secrets that, uh. Uh, what a secret that are hidden. So I guess in the, in the print function, we do kind of hide, um, that we are printing to system out, right? That that's maybe a secret that's hidden, but, uh, yeah, the fact that we have monthly payments that is, uh, is known in the print function and also in the calculate payment. So here we define monthly payment. So whenever you, uh, um, whenever your payment frequency is changing then you would have to change the payment, uh, payment function. And then you also have to change the print function because this one knows that, uh, it's a monthly payment. Right. So this is an example of where the secret is not, um, or the unhidden secret is not in the API, but it's just in a string. Right? You have you have told the print function that, uh, payments are due monthly, and then the developer has put it into the print function, which maybe they shouldn't do. Uh, yeah. So in calculate payment, our monthly compounding with this daily compounding that is, that is uh yeah hidden here. So that would only have to change there. But the yeah the frequency of when they are due that is not hit. Uh, so yeah, we could anticipate these kinds of changes that the interest might accrue daily versus monthly, that the, um, payment frequency might change. And then, yeah, you usually come up with what we call this kind of change impact matrix. So for each type of interest, uh, for each type of change that you could imagine, you then. Mark all of the modules that have to change when this change comes about. So the biweekly payments or the weekly payments, they would have to change and calculate payment. And they also have to change in print. But uh, the daily compounding instead of monthly compounding that only has to change and calculate payment. And then in calculate payment we also do ignore the um. Since we do some rounding there. Some. Well, this is maybe a bit hard to see, but there there's some there, some rounding that ignores the sense, uh, that is also hidden inside of this function, which is good. Um. So whenever you're designing systems, you want to think of these, uh, important change scenarios that you can already anticipate. And then you want to evaluate your design options and how well they support this kind of change. And if there is a likely change that requires you to change a lot of different modules, you want to redesign your system in a way that it localizes the change in either a single module or maybe just, you know, the two modules on each side of the client and server, for example. Um, and this is, uh, the kind of mindset you want to adopt whenever your boss tells you design a feature, design a system that does X, you always want to first think about what are the potential changes that might happen. Because with all of this information, it's really hard for you to do this kind of design. Um, I think you the question. No. Okay. Other questions about this. Okay. Cool. Yep. That was the end of Tuesday's lecture. Now let's get back to today's lecture. Okay, we've just kind of recapped information hiding, but, um, who remembers? Who remembers what the information hiding principle said? Who remembers? The key characteristic that decides how we should modularize our systems. Elliot. You want to put the design decisions that are likely to change in module. So you want to, uh, pick all of the design decisions that are likely to change and then hide them in the module from all of the others. Um, yes. A module is an independent work unit. The goal of modularization is parallel development, so that you can split up the work in your team project that one of your team members can work without having to constantly message you about your API design. Um, yeah. Design module so that they hide design decisions on meeting each other. Quiz questions is using public. It's using a public getter method, uh, instead of and keeping the field private. Is this helping us with information hiding? Yes. Yes. How? You don't need to worry about how to like how the class is actually calculating the. Oh, so a public getter is just getting a feel, just the concept, like the current value of the field. So, uh, a public getter method, um, and keeping a field private, there's no calculation happening. This is just kind of getting the current value of a field. Does this help with information hiding? Now we make the field private. Uh, and then create a public getter method. Yes. Why not? Exactly. If just change the syntax, you've not hidden any additional details. We've just prevented them from, let's say, setting the field, but we've not prevented them from knowing that the field exists and we have not prevented them from knowing what data structure the field is. So we have not contributed anything to the information. Hiding is using a dynamic call instead of a static call about information hiding. It's a polymorphism instead of a static call. Yes. Oh, okay. Elliot. How so? Um, instead of being, like, static. I'm telling you. Exactly. You just give me, like, one object and I. I see where you're coming from, but. Okay. Actually, I have a bigger one. Okay. Okay. Um. Okay, so what we said earlier, you have to kind of separate the syntax from the actual design decisions. So if a call is happening implicitly, instead of explicitly using polymorphism behind some, um, you know, uh, a runtime caller rather than a static call that you see in the code, you still know that the call is happening. So unless you've hidden the actual code behind an interface, it's not really helping with information hiding. Okay. The internal data structure layer is exposed through a getter method. Is this? Okay. Is this bad? What do we think about this? And we say it's bad, right? Yes. This is very bad. Okay. Nobody wants candy. I should really bring some, like, other stuff. I've been told that some other professors handle tokens, and then they count the tokens at the end of the quarter and give bonus points for this. Um. Maybe I should do that. Um, maybe I should do that. Um, I guess I kind of know who is participating so I can just, you know, I don't need to actually count the tokens, but, um. Anyways, I think people who participate a lot will just generally do well anyway, so they don't need tokens, but, um. Yeah. So, yeah, this is, uh, public getter methods and not about information hiding. Using dynamic with esthetic cost doesn't have an impact, but we don't want to expose the internal data structure through a public, uh, int getter interface. We want to if we define a interface, we want to hide the data structure. So we want to not tell people what the internal data structure. So this is violating information hiding. Um so we should avoid doing that. Okay. Oh, it's it's. Yes, because it's a violation of information hiding, if that makes sense. Oh. So it is exposed to again it is this. I guess we should rephrase this as is this. This is related to information hiding. The answer is yes. This makes the difference whether the question is kind of like whether your, uh, interface is exposing the data structure that changes whether your information hiding is doing well or not. Uh, the other examples are not like that. Um, okay. Questions about information hiding. Cool. Who has done the Java tutorial? Nobody. Okay, I hope you'll all do well without having done the Java tutorial, but I would recommend you to do it because you will. You'll also see I also put a step in there about information hiding, where you then see an actual other code example about information hiding, and where you also see the direct mapping of the Java code to UML, which are, you know, the two things that are definitely going to be on the midterm. Um, so you're getting some practice of this can be quite, can be quite useful. The other thing that will be on the midterm is going to be design patterns. Um, this, this amazing book had first design patterns. Uh, that is accessible via the UCLA library. Um, and I recommend everybody to read chapter one and two after this lecture. And then also look at the other chapter as we are covering new design patterns. Um, there are a lot of books on design patterns. The original Gang of Four books, elements of reusable design, uh, reusable object oriented design. Um, by Gamma Helm Johnson. And so we cover this over here, probably later. Uh, that is a good reference. That's a good reference once you've understood how the design patterns work. The original Gang of Four book is good. This is using a more kind of pedagogical, uh, approach of explaining why this pattern makes sense and why how the original code before you've used the pattern looks bad. So this is why I recommend reading this book. Um, rather than the the reference book. Today we're going to cover strategy observer and mediator. So the first two uh, right from the head first book. Um, and what is a design pattern? A design pattern. Um. Fun story. The original idea of design patterns, uh, doesn't actually originate in computer science. You may close the door. Let's get a bit more quiet. Okay. Uh, the original idea of design patterns originates in civil architecture. Christopher Alexander was an architect who had the idea to structure reusable ideas of good solutions in a pattern and format. And then he wrote a book, uh, that was only read by computer scientists and computer scientists. Went crazy about it. They were like, this is so amazing. And then they invited him to all kinds of software engineering conferences and in, in civil engineering, nobody really cared. Uh, so he is a he is a big celebrity in the Peden community, in software engineering. But in his own community, people, he kind of gets annoyed when he gets invited to another software engineering conference because of that. But a pattern is a common, acceptable solution to a reoccurring problem that arises in a specific context. So let's untangle this. It is common. So it is found in many instances. If you see a solution that is amazing and of course only in your code, we don't call it the pattern. We call it genius, but we don't call it the pattern. If it if it is common, then it is. It's a pattern. We call it an acceptable solution because it is generally good. So it is, uh, not necessarily always the right thing to do. So what students often mistake when they learn design patterns is that the quality of your code is measured by how many design patterns you have. And in your final presentation in the course, the more design patterns you name, the better your grade will be. That's not necessarily the case. So they are an acceptable solution and generally better than other solutions. But they also have some drawbacks. So you have to decide individually whether applying a design pattern or not is a good idea. And it is, uh, a solution to a reoccurring problem. It's a problem that is not just, uh, a single instance, but a problem that you see over and over again. And this is the reason why learning design patterns in college is such a useful use of your time, because you will encounter the problems that we see in these design patterns probably once a month. When you're developing your probably at least once a month, you will come across one of these problems and you're like, oh yeah, I learned these design patterns. So then you can use these design patterns. They're kind of like a like a toolbox for an engineer. The more patterns you know, the quicker you can solve these problems. And. Design patterns have to be specifically tailored to their specific context. The other, um, mistake that students make is that they see patterns as a template of code, and then they just copy and paste the code from Wikipedia or from other sources. A design pattern has to be tailored to the specific context. You have to make additional design decisions. After you've started using the design pattern, um. Yeah. It's not universally good. Okay. A design pattern is kind of a language that helps you communicate solutions with others. That's another really big advantage of design patterns. When you are having a conversation with your teammate and you're like, how do we make sure that the UI elements are updated whenever we have state changes in our model? And you say, oh, let's just use the observer design pattern because you have paid attention in this lecture. Then your colleague, who has also paid attention, and their lecture on the design pattern of the observer has read the book, will instantly know what you're talking about. You don't have to draw a gazillion UML diagrams. You don't have to, uh, write hundreds of lines of code to show people what you're talking about. You just say, I'm going to think of the observer design pattern, and then everybody knows what you're talking about. It's a really nice, common language that helps you describe your ideas in a much more efficient way. And, well, if you can communicate easily with your colleagues, then this also makes it easier for you to communicate your idea with your eye coding agent. When you're like, I want to use the observer design pattern for this. I want to use the strategy design pin and you just say separate your design pattern and of course your eye coding agent. That has definitely paid attention and its design pattern class so that one will know for sure. Um. Yeah. So there are a lot of different pattern languages that are kind of domain specific. And this class will mostly cover the more general object oriented design patterns. But they also pattern languages for distributed systems, for resource management, for computer graphics, for games, the entire books just on design patterns for X. And then X is some kind of specific domain. And when you are um, then let's say you work in, um, an online games, that's your domain in which you earn your living, and then you want to specifically study the design patterns in this domain in addition to the more general ones, the more general ones, uh, they originate from, um, Eric Gamma, um, Richard Helm. So the first name of Johnson, also not of felicitous, but we call them the Gang of Four because there were four people who had about the same idea of design patterns. And then they collected these design patterns in a book we call them the Gang of Four, and their book is called Design Patterns Elements of Reusable Object Oriented Software. This book is quite old, I think. It was published in 1995, the year I was born. So, um, it's maybe some of the examples are quite outdated, which is another reason why you might want to use, uh, head first design patterns instead of the original book. But design patterns are not a substitute for thoughts. So you don't want to, uh, just think. Just because there is a design pattern, you should always use the design pattern. Um, also, it is often common to include the roles that are imposed by design patterns and names of classes. But in many cases, that's not necessarily a good idea. Um, so you don't necessarily always want to say this is the record observer. This is the, um, um, um, implementation strategy. Why why might we not want to include the names of the design patterns in our classes? Why might it be a bad idea to say we use this design pattern in this class? Yes. We might overfit. Why might this be a bad idea to call it in the name of the class? Right. So they see they see the design decision we've made, whether it's a violation of some principle that you might have learned. What's the principle called? Yes, exactly. Yes. It's the violation of information hiding. Yeah. Um. Yeah. All design patterns, kind of trade offs. There's no silver bullet. There's not one thing that always works well. Um, and they also the implementation very, very strongly depends on the programing language. Um, so here we'll look at Java. In Python for example, they will look a little bit different because in Python you don't really have a first class interface. You have the, you know like ABC, the abstract base class, and you have abstract methods, but it's not really like part of what people usually do in Python. And then once you move to programing languages like Ruby, you can sometimes just say include Singleton. And then instantly the class is a singleton. And then if you move to the programing language paradigm called aspect oriented programing, then suddenly the implementation of the design patterns just are like two lines. Uh, so it really depends on the programing language you are using, uh, how you implement this and some design patterns are more programing language specific. The design patterns we are covering in this lecture, they are going to be object oriented design patterns. So they only work in of the object oriented programing paradigm. The idea behind using design patterns is that you have the abstraction of design experience. So the Gang of Four, they have a lot of industry experience, and they codify all of their experience in these design patterns. So by studying the design patterns, you are basically studying the collective experience and wisdom of people in this domain, which is, uh, basically kind of like a cheat code, right? So you're instantly upgrading those skills to a much more experienced engineer without having to go through all of the experience yourself. Um. Yeah, I've talked about this. Um. A design pattern is described using with this, uh, this kind of structure. So you have the name of the pattern often comes with the classification. So they are for example creational design patterns. There are structural design patterns. There are behavioral design patterns. The intent is basically describing what the whole goal behind this pattern is. Some parents have multiple names. So the observer we are going to uh, here today that is also often known as the listener, for example. So the listener and observer are exactly the same. Um, one is more visual, the other is more editorial. Right. Um, justification. Why is this a good idea? What what does it apply to the structure? So then you see some class diagrams, the participants that you describe the role. So every single object oriented design pattern is defining additional roles. And this is really interesting. So the roles that these design patterns describe, they then add additional responsibilities to the classes to which they are mapped. Um, maybe you should look at this a little bit in more detail. Once we look at like the observer design pattern, I think the observer is a great example for this. Uh, and then you see the collaborations. These are usually sequence diagrams. We see how these abstract roles interact with each other. Uh, a good design pattern description goes into a lot of detail on the consequences. So these are going to be the advantages and disadvantages of using this pattern. And this is this is what you really want to memorize. You really want to memorize. What are the advantages and disadvantages of each of the design patterns. So that when you are thinking about applying them, you know, uh, why you might want to apply them and why you not want to apply them. And that's something I had. It's hard to use design patterns. And then some design decisions that help you implement this. Usually some sample code. Again, don't focus too much on the sample code. This is just for you to get the idea. Okay. Um, a shared vocabulary is very powerful. We want to say more of less. We've talked about why there's so much duplication here. I need to duplicate this. Okay, now, let's, um, do a quick show of hands. Uh, so that I say with your fingers how many design patterns you have already learned until today? 200. What? So many zeros. What? Three. That could be the case. Yes. I mean, can you argue that, like, there's so many different things that you just can't label as a design pattern? Like I would argue against that. People have tried. So after the original Book of Design Patterns came out, the community was like, oh, this is just the beginning. We will discover a thousand more. Everything will be a pattern. That hasn't really turned out to be the case. I personally do like to describe most of the things that I'm teaching in this pattern format. This is a problem. This is a solution. This is the context. These are the consequences. But actual implementation design patterns are somewhat limited. Yes, you can say that like a lot of the 180. Algorithms are not so design patterns about the structure and behavior of objects. Um, algorithms? Uh, I would not consider algorithms a design pattern. Uh, yeah. We usually put them in like a separate category. Um. Okay. Well, if nobody if most students have had zero design exposure, then this is going to be a lot of fun. Um, this is going to be a lot of fun. Okay. So we want to build a simple duck arsenal. Duck. Should we all want to have a simulation of multiple kinds of ducks. And we want to have mallard ducks. We want to have ducks that can swim. We want to have ducks that can cook. We want to have a red net duck and redheaded duck as well. And maybe we also want our ducks to fly. So we might want to have a duck class that has a quack, a swim, and a display class. And then we have a lot of different kinds of ducks, right? We have the mallard duck that has a display. We have the redheaded duck. They all inherit from the abstract class duck. And then they implement their own display. Right. So then the mallard duck looks like a mallard duck. The redheaded duck looks like a redheaded duck. And. Yeah. This kind of looks very trivial, right? This is just basic inheritance and, um, and polymorphism. But now let's say we want to add a fly method. If we want to add a fly method, what are we going to do with the rubber duck. Some ducks can fly like a rubber duck can fly, a rubber duck can swim a rowboat. I can kind of quack, quack set a different sound. It can be displayed. It looks like a rubber duck. Um. But what? What do we do with fly? Any ideas? How can we? What should we do about fly? Where should we put this? Yeah. Oh, so you have like a, you have a subclass of duck that sucks flyable duck and that has a fly method. That would be an interesting suggestion, but this this only works for one additional feature. Let's say we want to have a rocket powered, uh, a duck as well, right? We want to add a different kind of behavior that is then cross-cutting this hierarchy. There are some other ducks that can, um, let's say dance. We have some dancing ducks. Uh, then we will also need a class for dancing ducks. We have flying dogs. We have dancing ducks. We have, um. Um, yeah. So then. Then this only works once. Right. Adding this additional level of hierarchy only works once. So we have to reserve this for the most important feature. Then we want to add that is really important I want to reserve this only for this situation can we come up with another idea besides just adding a class in between. Yes. You know, that is called. Life throws an exception. If it throws an exception. Uh, that would be an interesting idea. Um, but then we have to implement the fly method multiple times in the mallard duck and the red headed duck. Right. So if we define this as like, uh, I guess we could define it on, on the duck class and then overrated. But then we violate, uh, a half dozen object oriented, uh, design principles. Then we violate the Liskov substitution principle that says if something is defined in a subclass, a superclass may not violate the guarantees provided by this superclass. And then the superclass would say, I am not throwing an exception. So then the subclass shouldn't throw an exception if the superclass is providing implementation. We're sort of the Liskov substitution principle before just. Okay. Okay. One, two. Okay. So there are additional design principles you might want to study because they're not teaching them in this class called the Solid Design Principles. Um, I'm teaching them in 35 L. But, um, if you want content on this, I can send you my 35 L slides on this. But, um, the solar design principles are really useful to study if you want to, uh, work with object oriented programs. Okay. Yeah. So we could, we could kind of like define this fly method here and then we can override it to do nothing or throw an exception. But that's not really clean design. Um, that you don't want to override a concrete method to then do nothing that is violating all of exception expectations that some people might have. Okay, now let's look at, uh, let's look at the decoy duck. So our decoy duck, uh, can then not quack. It can still display. Um, and can also not fly. So we have the decoy duck that suddenly also doesn't have a quack function. So maybe inheritance is just not necessarily the right approach for all kinds of features. And when you think about object oriented design, this is one really important design principle that whenever possible, you want to use delegation instead of inheritance. Delegation is basically saying you put some functionality into a separate class, and then instead of inheriting this behavior from your superclass, you delegate this responsibility to, um, this separate class. So instead of inheriting this behavior, you're delegated to another class that handles this behavior. And if we now look at this, we can have. Different interfaces we can have flyable. We could inherit from these interfaces. There won't be inheritance or like implementation. Then we have a lot of duplication. That's not great. So instead of doing this, instead of having our ducks all realize these implementations. So now we have three different implementations of the same interface. They basically do the same thing. And here we have two different implementations. We don't want that. So instead. Okay. We just talked about this. Okay, I was getting a little bit ahead of myself. Uh, instead of having this, we want to use delegation. See the strategy design pattern. This strategy design pattern defines an interface specifically about, um, some behavior that has variation in the subclasses. So let's say your duck and duck has some flying behavior, but there are different kinds of flying behavior that a duck could have. And it could be fly with wings. That could be the fly null object, the fly null object that doesn't fly. Uh, this implements the flying behavior. It can't fly. This is not overriding existing flying behavior. This is just saying I can't fly. And then you have quacking behavior. You have different kinds of quacks. You have a quack from a normal duck. You have a squeak from a rubber duck. You have a mute quack from the, um, decoy duck. So you delegate the responsibility to decide what should happen when you. A duck should fly to a separate parallel class hierarchy with an interface. So you define this interface flying behavior. And then you have different implementations and you delegate. So this is where the aggregation comes into play. So you aggregate this you own this behavior. And then instead of implementing this yourself you just your um implementation of perform fly is basically just fly behavior dart fly and perform quack. It's just quack behavior. Dot quack. Right. So then these methods are one liners. But you have a lot of behavioral variation here. So the code can look like this. So you have your abstract class duck that uh has flying behavior. Quacking behavior has a constructor has set fly behavior has set quack behavior. This is important that those are public. Why do why do these need to be public. Why do these need to be public. Can anybody tell me why it makes sense for those to be public? Okay, let's maybe look at the class diagram again. Yes. That's outside. That's right. We might want to change this at runtime, or we want to have another class from the outside. Configure our duck. Um. Okay. And then you have perform fly. That's just fly behavior or fly perform caucus escort behavior and then swim. All floats can swim. Even the decoy duck. So all all of them have the same swimming behavior. So we don't have to put this into a separate class until at some point we decide that we need to we don't make premature abstractions that are not needed. If all of them swim in exactly the same way, there's no reason for us to create an interface and a class that implements it until that maybe happens. Yes, I know which abstractions are. It's like we don't know. That's that's the question that, uh. Uh, is the reason why you still get, uh, a high salary when you are, uh, when you are graduating, uh, you basically do this by thinking about your change scenarios. So you are anticipating what a potential change scenarios that are likely and what a change scenarios that have a large impact on your architecture. And you want to handle the high likelihood, high, uh, impact change scenarios. Uh, this is why you want to think of this change scenario. So we just described in the beginning of the lecture, if you don't do this, then it's going to be impossible for you to make this decision. What is a premature abstraction? So a premature abstraction is an abstraction that is not needed in the foreseeable future. In likely change scenarios, an abstraction that you anticipate needing that is not premature. So if you have a change scenario that is likely, then planning for this is great design. This is this is what your boss will love. Because when your boss is like, can you please implement this? And you're like, I just need to change these five lines and I'm done. You'll get promoted. Um, if yeah, if you create too many premature abstractions, then everything will be a mess and nobody will understand what the code actually does, because there are going to be a million classes and nobody knows where anything is implemented. Yes. Which paradigms are remixing. Oh I see. Okay. So the idea of object oriented programing is not necessarily to have a like 1 to 1 mapping of the real world and the objects. So having an object that just encapsulates the behavior of, um, let's say quacking or swimming, um, uh, it's not necessarily bad design in itself. Um, and in object oriented programing, we try to use objects to, uh, define variation points. So we have this variation point of quacking behavior and flying behavior. We could do this with inheritance. But this is, uh, this is a one time chip. We can only get at once. Uh, if we have single inheritance, if you have multiple inheritance, we should not use multiple inheritance. Uh, but, um. Yeah. So you want to you want to define these? We call these a layers of indirection. So you have, uh, uh, instead of deciding yourself how you perform the fly or how you perform the quack, you, uh, create this layer of indirection where another object is making this decision for you. Uh, this is very flexible design that you see all over in these object oriented design patterns. Um, it does come with certain drawbacks. Um, but it's not inherently a violation of the idea of object oriented design, because in object oriented design, you want to, um, you want to build these graphs of structures that, um, encapsulate. Uh, behavior and state they should remain together. Right. So here you are basically delegating the, uh, behavior to, uh, another object. Okay. Yeah. And then your your different ducks. They just extend the superclass and then in their constructor they can already define their own flying behavior, their own quacking behavior. And then that could be changed uh, at some point. And then you can even have a fly rocket powered. Then you can just very easily add different kinds of flying behaviors. You can have flying with wings. You can have flying with rockets. Uh, by just adding a new subclass. So whenever you design your systems specifically in the object oriented paradigm, but also in other paradigms, you want to design them in a way that changes are just implemented by adding code, not by, um, modifying existing code. This is the open closed principle. Is this one of the solid principles that says a module should be open for extension and closed for modification? And by creating this interface, you allow developers to then just define their own class of their own flying behavior and then add it into the system without changing any other piece of code. This is great. We love this. We love having, uh, designs that are open for extension. And then your main class, you just create your mallard duck, your rubber duck, and then you can upgrade your, your model duck to use rocket, uh, fueled flying behavior. Whenever your model duck of receives this upgrade. Um. Okay. Does this make sense so far? The strategy design pattern. Can you see how this can be useful in many different cases? I think this strategy is one of the most used design patterns. It's also the most straightforward one. Yes. The first thing you're should not violate. Great question. Yes it does. But sometimes that's okay. Sometimes that's okay. So we have. We have exposed the design decision that we use a strategy. We have used this. We have exposed this design decision. Um, but um, if this is a design decision that is unlikely to change. If so, design patterns are often one way streets. So usually you. Start without a design pattern. And then when you need more flexibility, you add the design pattern in. It very rarely happens. Then you refactor away from a design pattern. There are some design patterns that you will refactor away, or you should refactor away. So there's the singleton design pattern. Um, but uh, the strategy I think is one that it's not usually the, uh, refactored away from, um, unless you have made a premature abstraction. Um, so to write to, to identify information, hiding the question isn't just, uh, secrets exposed, but also are secrets likely to change? If they're not likely to change, then it's okay that they are exposed. But yeah, you're thinking exactly the right way. Yes. You don't generally want to expose, um, the strategy if you don't have to. Okay. Other questions. It's a great question. It's like 5 p.m. and you're really thinking sharply. That's great. Um, okay, so the strategy design pattern defines a family of algorithms or in general kinds of behavior, and then encapsulates each one and makes them interchangeable at runtime. So this is kind of a critical portion of the strategy design pattern. If you don't really need the runtime flexibility, using the strategy design pattern is not always the right approach. Sometimes you want to use a non, you know, object oriented version of this if you don't need exchangeability at runtime, uh, but because it's an object structure you can just change this object structure. If you use a then um, selects a different behavior implementation, then you can just exchange it. So yeah, they let you uh, very them independently and the client can just pick one. This is the abstract structure of the strategy design pattern. So when we discuss design patterns, there are always different roles that are added to the classes. And the role that is added to the duck class is called context. This has some operations that will then be called from outside. And then we have the abstract strategy or strategy interface role that uh, in this case either to like flyable uh or uh coachable. And then you have concrete strategy implementations that realize this interface. In the strategy example, these ones are usually classes that solely serve the purpose of the strategy design pattern. They don't have any other purpose in the system. It's a very clean design. It's not going to be the case for the observer, but. Okay. What are the concrete strategy classes? Exercise your brain. Name all of the concrete strategy classes. Yes. Quack, quack squeak. Fly with wings. Fly? That's right. Yes. Yeah. So these are all the concrete strategy classes. Okay. What are disadvantages of this design? Yes. This requirement you have to go into. I think that's also the case for all kinds of design said that allow you to call quark and fly. I think that's a disadvantage. That's that's kind of unavoidable. Like you also have to. Exactly. That's the main disadvantage. So you have a lot of code duplication. You have to implement clock three times. You have to implement flyable uh, two times. Yes. Okay. And what are the design decisions that we would expect to vary in this kind of structure? Yes. The exact nature of the flag. That's right. That's one of them. Is that another decision that might change? The nature of flying behaviors, the nature of quirky behaviors. Another design decision that is potentially likely to change that is the structure is designed for. Yes. New types of ducks? Sure. Yes. Same as us. Same thing. Okay. Anything else. The mapping of the subclasses to the behavior. That's also something that's really easy to change that we would anticipate. We would anticipate that maybe at some point our rubber ducks get their own wings maybe, and they can fly. We can also make this change very easily. Okay. Uh, what's the intent behind the strategy pattern? So the intent is basically describing what are the changes that we expect to happen and for the strategy design pattern. The intent is basically you you have some behavior variation. You want to add more behaviors. You want to change behaviors. You want to change the mapping of subclasses to behaviors. These are this is the whole purpose of having this design pattern. Okay. Questions about the strategy design pattern. Okay. Yeah. We start with this one because that one is much easier to understand than many of the others. Um, yes. So like when you're looking at design patterns, should you be kind of matching them to your user stories. Because these to be kind of. Imagine, like, hey, like the stories kind of boiled down to this set of design patterns. This set of contents? Yes. So when you are, when you are in the design process, when you try to think about good ways to implement your user stories, then you say you want to implement this using the strategy design pattern, this using the observer design pattern. And I think when you're looking at your user stories, it's exactly the point when you want to think about this. Because the user stories then gives you a hint of what potential other, you know, features might do requested what what might be coming in the future. So looking at your user stories, when you are, um, designing the systems and making these design decisions, that's exactly when you want to think about design patterns that that would be in the, you know, design activity. If you think of like requirements engineering, design implementation, that's that's the the phase that we are in. And um. Yeah, you sometimes will realize that after you have implemented a user story that there's another user story that then we acquires more flexibility and then you have to refactor the existing code. So sometimes you realize that you forgot about using this design pattern. Yes. What is it that you're all about that like different types of names. The kind of mind that. Like about the cat makes a move, lose its weight or something for the most. Yeah. So we provide some flexibility that is maybe not necessarily intended. So that is maybe more kind of abuse potential that somebody is setting the analog allowed to use rocket powered, uh, wings which on a larger dog just does it half. So, uh, yeah, when you, when you add this flexibility into your system, you have to be aware that sometimes, um, this flexibility is overused. And then there are a lot of different combinations. So this is a downside whenever you add this flexible behavior into your system. One of the downsides is that this large amount of flexibility increase creates a lot of potential complexity. That's hard to reason about that. That's just you know, that's the one of the downsides. So yeah, you don't. This is this is why I say, uh, design patterns are not always the right choice. Sometimes you want to not choose a design pattern. Yes. Demonstration of the strategy. You. You mean this? Yeah, yeah. So the interface always goes above the name of the class or inside dux. Oh, you're right, you're right. This is a mistake. Yeah. You're right, you're right. We should fix this. Somebody hasn't been paying attention. That's good. Okay. Now suddenly my. Yeah, yeah, this is right. This would be this. Somebody has been learning UML. That's great. Okay, cool. Uh, let's move on to the observer design pattern. Um, and let's think about designing a weather station. So we want to process a lot of different sensor input. We have humidity sensors. We have temperature sensors. We have pressure sensors. And then we have a lot of different, um, display devices that show the current values of the humidity and the temperature and pressure sensor. So we have a lot of different data that should all be displayed in many different objects. We could come up with a design where we have a weather data class that has get temperature, get humidity, get pressure, and that then changes. So then we call the measurements changed. Whenever measurements are updated, every single time the temperature and the humidity and the pressure updated. We call this, uh, this method. This allows us to then, you know, hook in some, some code here that should be executed whenever measurements are changed. Right. That that seems kind of intuitive, right. We create this method. And then whenever somebody is changing the temperature and humidity and pressure, then in this method we just update all of our displays. We just call for each of the displays. Here is the new temperature. Here's the new humidity. Here's the new, um, pressure. But. We have some problem here. We have the weather data has, uh, quite a lot of getter methods, and we, uh. This this could be called at any point in time, right? So we we can, uh, one just one of them is changing. Um, they would all be, uh, resulting a lot of updates. Um, and we want to support a lot of different display. So we have the current conditions display the weather data, statistics and sample forecast. And the system should also be expandable. So we want to maybe add more different kinds of displays in the future. So these are the three displays we currently need. But we might want to add more displays in the future. So what kind of design could we come up that allows us to do this. Let's look at the trivial implementation. So we have our measurements changed. So we get the value from temperature. We get the value from humidity. We get the value from pressure. And then we update the temperature humidity and pressure on the current conditions display. We update the temperature humidity and pressure and the statistics display. We update the forecast display as well. You know that that's probably the kind of code maybe you would see quite, quite often in the wild. But this is not very extensible. What do we need to change? Whenever we need a new type of display. Talk to your neighbor. Should somehow move this. Okay, what do we need to change whenever we need to update the available displays? Let me see somebody from here. No. Uh, yes. Volunteer. What is this? Adding a new display like the one of the right. So yeah, we might want to have uh, additional, let's say, uh, mobile display or a, um, um, you know, physical in front of the weather balloon display. Uh, we want to add or we want to remove or replace them. What do we need to change? The station. Is updated with the temperature. Sure all over again. You just need to add lines. Right. And. What's bad about this? What is bad about adding more display lines here? Why is this not great? Yes. You repeat quite a lot of. You know. What else is bad about this? Yes. Any other ideas why this is bad? I mean, logically, this code has to be somewhere, right? Whenever we need to add a new display, that has to be some code somewhere that adds the new display. What is the issue with having this code here? What's the issue with that? Yes. Oh my God, you. That could be the case. But, uh, there could be issues besides pure functionality that make it a bad choice to require us to add lines in this specific method. Yes. Like this. Like just this one display like that displays. And then. In general, we might. So in this specific problem, we do want to have multiple displays that that we don't want to get around, but we want to add it somewhere else. Yes. Mean like maybe even if you update the. Values like. What if you want to update the. Statistics display every like five minutes. Not every single like every single time there's a slight change in the pressure you have to call it. You have to change every single thing. But if you want to, like, change how that there would be a problem that might arise. Okay, let's think about this from a modularity perspective from a limiting cognitive load perspective. So last lecture we talked about different design principles. And the goal of design is to minimize the things that people have to keep in their head to understand what's going on. This is the weather data class, the weather data classes, the domain class, this these are UI concerns. The weather data class should just define what weather data is. The weather data expert defines this class. If we hook in multiple displays, we mix a lot of different concerns. We mix the concern of a domain class of weather data with UI. How this is represented, right? We don't want to mix these concerns because we don't want the people who care about this place to have to understand the weather data class. And we don't want the weather data experts to have to really remember what kind of displays are in the system, why we've mixed the UI concerns and the domain logic, the business concerns in one class. We don't want that. We want this domain class to know nothing about the UI. The domain class should be like, I don't even know if the UI exists, right? That would be the ideal situation. So we want to get rid of that. We want to remove these explicit update calls to come to concrete UI elements that we shouldn't even know that they even exist, right? The weather data class should not know that those exist. So yeah, this has to change and it should not change because this is in the weather data class. There is an amazing design pattern that is solving this problem for you. And you've probably seen this a gazillion times already without knowing. Um, whenever you've worked with some kind of UI framework, you've implicitly used the observer design pattern. Whenever you've used event processing frameworks, you've implicitly used the observer design pattern. And in most cases in which you lose any framework, your view is the observer design pattern. The observer design pattern defines a one to many dependency between objects, so that when one object changes, all of the dependencies are notified to automatically update themselves. Right. This is a very, very general problem. Very, very general. Right. This you can see how this occurs in like a lot of different situations. Whenever you have an object where multiple other objects are interested in getting notified. Like you can think of a social media system, right, where people can subscribe to, um, create us whenever they create something they want to get notified. Uh, you can think of, um, a, um, Hvac system whenever the temperature changes, different kinds of, uh, like the AC has to go on or off. The, uh, heating has to go on, off. The way how this works is, uh, that it's kind of the basis of what we call the public subscribe model. We will cover, publish, subscribe in the last lecture as well. Second to last lecture as well. So you have different kinds of topics you could be interested in, um, buying magazines and newspapers lists. And then you create a subject interface that allows somebody to register an observer, to remove an observer, and to notify an observer whenever it changes. And then you have an observer interface that just defines an update method. That's the only thing the observer method specifies. And then, um, yeah, this one has temperature, humidity and pressure. And then you have a display element that can be displayed. Uh, and then you have weather data. And now weather data looks very, very clean. The weather data has temperature, humidity, pressure. This we've already seen. And it just has a list of observers. It doesn't know what these observers do. It doesn't know how many they are. There could be zero. There could be a million. It doesn't know. It doesn't care. Yes. Under the hood, is it still pretty much just storing everyone who's observing it? That's right. It's it's sort of doing the same thing. It's just it's making it like the way you think about it. This is a great insight. So design patterns are not magic. Design patterns are just, um, more flexible solutions that restructure the code in a way that is better representing the mental model that people have. So it's easier for people to identify where they need to make the changes. The actual compiled code might actually literally be the same. In this case, it's not because you have the list data structure that you wouldn't have had otherwise, but in some cases the compiled code will be exactly the same. Um, so design patterns are just describing the design in a way where code is in the place where it should be to be changed in the most effective way. And here you have basically just you've removed all concrete calls to these displays. You've just said there are a list of observers, you store them and then you just have a register observer where you add them. You have remove observer where you remove them. You have notify observers where you iterate over the list and then you call update. This is exactly the same we've had before, and now we store them in a list. Instead of them being, um, named explicitly in the code. So we've we've actually now we've come in a little bit more memory. We also consume a few more CPU cycles. So we are a little bit less efficient right. But we don't usually care about these minimal additional, you know, a list or a few CPU cycles. For most real world systems, performance is not as critical. We care more about um, in most cases we care more about the changeability because that's usually the limiting factor of our system. Okay, so yeah, we've gotten rid of all of these explicit calls to displays that our weather data should know about. Um, and so the abstract structure of the observer design pattern looks like this. So we have our subject, we have our observer, we have our, uh, this is an interface. We have the concrete observer that is realizing this interface and then, uh, knows the subject. And the subject has a list of observers. Very simple structure, right? Very simple structure. It actually looks very similar to the strategy design pattern. What's the difference? I mean, the class diagram is almost identical, right? Almost. What's the difference? Yes. Mm. No idea. Do you really always have to rely on Elliot? Okay, Elliot. I guess, like, for the for your company, it's hard for us to read. Hmhm. Actually have some classes. Well, this is this is the case for both design patterns and both design patterns. You have, you know, some concrete implementations that this this concrete implementation directly subjects. Original class. Um. Okay. It's a secret that I have not told you that this can be the case. And it can also not be the case for both types of design patterns. So in this strategy, you can have a variation where then the strategy knows about its owner. Uh, and in the uh observer design pattern you can have uh. So here you have and this is what we call the pool model. So the two different models in the observer, this is the pool model and the pool model. Your update method has no parameters. And then the observer is pulling the data from its subjects. But it has to know its subject. And then it pools the data that it needs in the push model. We don't have this dependency, but we have all of the data in the parameters. So then update just sends all of the data that might have relevance for the observer. So the difference is there is basically do you want the observer to store its uh, uh, its subject, or do you want to always pass a lot of data to all of the objects? Right. This is the trade off you have to make. Um, but the main difference between the strategy and the observer from a class diagram perspective is that in this strategy, every single context always just has one single strategy that it's, uh, pointing to. Here we have it should probably add a star here because this is a list. So a subject maintains a list of observers. While in the strategy example it is exactly one each. Not 0 or 1, not 1 or 2. It's always um, it's always exactly one. So when you go back to the strategy class diagram. So each one of those would be a one. So the duck has exactly one flying behavior. It has exactly one quacking behavior. Okay. Cool. And then for our weather data it would look like this. So we have an observer. We have display elements. And then um each of them implement each methods. So our observer is basically the interface we provide to the weather data. So for the weather data the only thing we tell it is that it has an update method. We don't tell it that it's a display. So this is why this arrow is just going to observer. It doesn't go to display element or anything else. So the weather data only knows about the observer interface. It doesn't know anything about what is happening below. And then they all can have a reference to the subject or not. And then they can also implement the display element interface so that let's say in our renderer we can then display them. Yeah. So we have a lot of different implementations of the observer interface. That all just implement the update method. And this this would be the push model where we have the temperature, the humidity and the pressure being passed to um the object directly. Okay. Questions? Have you seen this before? Who has seen something like this in the code before? One. One. Two. Two. Wow. You folks need to go on more internships. Um. The observer pattern is basically, uh, reducing the coupling between our methods and objects. So in, um. The last lecture, we learned that we want to reduce coupling. We want to reduce the dependencies and information that they know about the objects that they collaborate with. And, uh, the observer is specifically doing this. So you have the data classes, and then you have classes that are interested in updates. And you want to reduce the coupling between these two by introducing an interface. Uh, so the only thing that the subject knows about is that observers exist and that they have an update method. Uh, they can be added at any point in time. And the subject, uh, then always notifies observers after they have been added to the system. Um, and the subject can then also be reused. You can have multiple different kinds of subjects. You can have multiple different kinds of observers. You can reuse the observers for different subjects. You can of I mean, the subject of course has to be reusable, but they just have to, you know, honor the API contract of observer, which is very small interface, very small contract. I guess the subject has to sell. Uh. Given its own contract of its own, an interface that the, um, observers know about. But, um. Yeah. So which types of changes are easy to make or hard to make in an observer design pattern? Adding new types of observers. Adding new types of subjects that require different subject states, different kinds of sensor state, and selectively notifying different observers. So for each of them, talk to a neighbor. If the observer design pattern helps with this or does not help with this. Let's give you two minutes for this. Hey, yo. You'd like to be able different. Uh. It's like, I don't know. Uh. Natural disaster. You know. Okay, maybe this was a little bit shorter. Seems like you're already getting a bit quiet. So how about the first one? Adding new types of observers? Who thinks this is super easy? Barely an inconvenience. That's right. Yes, yes, that's exactly what the observer is for. That's the whole. That's the main point. How about adding new types of subjects? They require different kinds of subject state. Who thinks this is super easy? Barely an inconvenience. Who thinks this is actually quite hard? The observer doesn't really help with that. Yes, exactly. Exactly. So yeah, once we change the interface of what kind of data we are providing, this is not necessarily what the observer is designed for. And then how about selectively notifying different observers. Who thinks this is super easy. Barely an inconvenience. Who thinks this is actually not that easy? Okay. We're split. Okay. Amazing. Let's have a debate. Who wants to say that this is super easy? Arguments for this. Nobody wants the impossible to just, like, create different like. Like his observer or one time thing. Just make like. Uh, not just create like a new observer, right? That like attracts. Like different things. I mean, you could create a new observer interface then for like different kinds of observers, it should be notified. But who wants to make the argument for this is really hard and not super easy. Yeah. Shane. That's the message. Exactly. So the the subject should know anything about the observers. So once the subject knows anything about the observers besides the interface, that's kind of a violation of the whole point behind the observer design pattern. So if you need this, then you would need different kinds of, let's say observer design pattern instances. Right. So then you have if you have different classes of observers that need to be notified, they all have to be their own observer design pattern with their own interface. Um, but the one instance of an observer design pattern does not help with this. Cool, nice. Then let's recap these two design patterns. So the strategy, the intent was to, uh, have lots of classes of subclasses that all have different kinds of behavior. Uh, and we wanted to, uh, avoid subclassing. And we also wanted to avoid just overriding the, uh, fly method because that kind of violates the contract of the superclass. We also wanted to avoid having a flyable interface that we then implement multiple times because that duplicates code. So we wanted to use the strategy that replaces inheritance of delegation. You'll see this over and over again in these design patterns that you start out with an idea of just adding inheritance. And then you replace inheritance with a parallel inheritance hierarchy that you delegate to the observer design pattern does an end to, uh, one relationship. Uh, it's kind of like a popular subscribe to subscribe. It's a little bit more complex, but we'll we'll cover this later. Uh, and you want a notification or listener mechanism? Uh, you have a, uh, a subject and an observer. Okay. Yeah, we already did this. Um. Yeah. You did this. Okay. Let's look at the mediator. Design patterns. The last design pattern for today. The mediator is a bit different. So the mediator is that we want to centralize complex communication and control between related objects. Uh, so let's say, uh, we have a Java enabled smart home. So in our smart home, we have a lot of different appliances. And Bob wants to, uh, hit the snooze button. Uh, and his alarm clock should then tell the coffee maker to start brewing. Right. We all want to live in this home. Well, when we wake up, we hit snooze, and then instantly, our coffee is. I don't like coffee. I like tea, but, uh, if you like coffee, you probably want that, right? Um. Uh, but you don't want coffee on the weekends. Because if you drink too much caffeine, that's not good for your for your brain. Don't drink too much caffeine. Um, and, uh, then you might also want to have the sprinkler turn off before the show, uh, schedule so that you don't, uh, get into too much water trouble. So you have a lot of different objects that all need to somehow communicate with each other, and they all have dependencies. They all need to know something about each other. So the alarm has an on event. Checks the calendar, it checks the sprinkler, and then it starts the coffee. So the alarm needs to know about the calendar, to know, uh, whether it should, uh, turn on the coffee pot. And then it also needs to know about the sprinkler. The coffee pot also has to check the calendar and check the alarm. The sprinkler has to check the calendar and check the shower. Right. So it has to know whether we are about to take the shower. Has to take the temperature. It has to check weather. So all of these objects, it's kind of like a big ball of mud, right? All of them depend on each other. And whenever we want to, let's say add a new appliance or make a change. This is going to be a lot of pain. With a mediator. We basically want to replace all of these complex interactions with one object. So each of the individual objects should just have their own abstract behavior, their own unique one single responsibility, and then all of the communications and interactions, they're all placed in the mediator object. So this looks like this. So we have an alarm. The alarm just goes on and off. We have a coffee pot. It just goes on and off. We have a sprinkler that just goes on and off. We have a calendar that just tells us what day it is, what time it is, whether it's the weekend. Um, and then the mediated. This is where all of the complexity is, right. The mediator that is talking to all of the different objects, and the mediator is checking the alarm events and then checks the shower, checks the temperature. So all of this really complex behavior of what it should when we want our sprinklers to go on. Uh, what kind of conditions? They are all separately placed just inside of the mediator. They don't know about any of this, but we have all of this, uh, rules inside of the mediator object. That's the key idea behind the mediator. So all objects are completely decoupled from each other. They don't even know about each other's existence, which is great, right? The alarm should know that there's a coffee pot in the in the house. The colander should know that the sprinkler depends on it. So they are all super reusable. They don't know about each other. They can be placed in any other smart home, and the only thing that would have to change if your own preferences change would be the Mid-tum. That's the single place of change. So all changes related to um, what should happen when how they depend on each other. This is all just. And this one single component. Um, and then the mediator that is basically controlling all of the logic. Um, and when an existing appliance needs a new rule or new appliances added, let's say now you, um, you have heard the good word of T, and now you also add a T maker in your, uh, kitchen. Then you just need to add this to the mediator. And then the coffee pot doesn't know that. There's also, now that you're cheating on the coffee pot with the tea maker. Um. So the benefit is increased reusability. Your objects, uh, because they don't know about each other. They, um, can be reused in other situations in which they don't exist, in which the other objects don't exist. You simplified maintenance because there's one single place to change, and you have, uh, reduce the variety of messages that will be sent throughout your system, because then every single object is has a super simple interface on and off. You just send on and off. But you have a really, really big drawback now. All of your messy code, uh, is inside of the mediator. So understanding the mediator is now really, really hard because you can't understand the mediator without understanding all of the other objects. Right? Um, it doesn't make sense to understand the mediator without knowing all about the other objects. And this is a single point of vulnerability and complexity. Let's say now we have security, uh, responsibilities. Uh, and, um, then we need to make sure that the once somebody has access to this mediator object. Suddenly they have control over your entire life, over everything. They can read your calendar. They can turn on your sprinkler. They know if you are in the shower. Um, so you have created this one single point that knows and controls everything. So once somebody breaks into this object, you know you're screwed. Um, so, yeah, this is why, um, you have to study the advantages and disadvantages of each of the different design patterns, because there will be situations in which using the mediator is, uh, amazing. It's great. It just reduces all of the complexity because it just wraps it into this one object that you only have to change once in a decade. Uh, but there will also be situations in which, uh, this is not a clean design because of security requirements or because, um, um, you if you in this example. Okay, let's maybe go back to this example. In this example. It's objectively the right thing to do, because all of the objects have to know about all of the objects. Right. So we have a complete graph here. All objects know about other objects. So we have objectively reduced the number of dependencies. But if if the graph is not fully I guess the sprinkler doesn't know about the coffee maker, that that dependency does not exist. Uh, but if you have a more sparse graph, you might actually add more dependencies this way, because then your mediator has to know about all of this. Um, and then you, you have increased the cognitive load to understand the mediator because it has to understand five objects. Well, maybe in a more sparse graph, each object just requires you to understand 2 or 3 objects. Right. Okay. Yes. I wonder if, like, did you have various levels of mediators and like this is really dense parts of your graph. Maybe you have like one. I mean, you could have a mediator of mediators. Um, you could have that. You could have a hierarchy of mediators. Maybe it doesn't have to be just the binary of using one. Right? That's true. Yeah. So design patterns are are more like an idea. And you can stack design patterns on top of design patterns. Um. I don't think I've specifically seen an instance of that happening, but I could imagine that once you have a control system, you naturally will lead to a design like that. You might not necessarily call it the mediator. Um, but you will probably end up with a design like that in most kinds of complex, really complex control systems. Yeah. Other questions about the mediator. Other questions about design patterns. Uh, uh, the difference between the, uh. Strategy pattern. Um, the object of, um. It was like you said, the strategy part of this pattern has a 1 to 1 relationship. Counter has, like, a list. Uh, which part in the strategy? Design? Uh, the class diagram. So this difference is just a structural difference. Um, so in the strategy, uh, here, uh. In this strategy, a duck has exactly one flying behavior, and the duck has exactly one quack behavior. Um, while in an observer context, you would have multiple of these interfaces that you aggregate. What is, uh, this diagram implies that, uh, say I have a right hand up the front. I can only have either I was. That's right. Exactly. I want to specify the 1 to 1 relationship here. Because like, I'm just confused why they put the one up there instead of next to the dashed line. Oh, okay. Okay. It's a great, um, question. So, uh, because fly, not object and fly with wings, they implement this interface. Yes. This means that the duck has one object of the type fly behavior. And because this is an interface, this means that it has to be some object that is of the type fly behavior, which in this diagram would be one of these two. Um, so they inherit this relationship, which then basically means that, uh, the duck has exactly one either fly with wings or fly object. Oh, good. But art so ah, retrieving the interface also has like a. Sort of object when we say one. That's right. Yes. Yes, yes. So yeah, if we would not have the, uh, class is implementing this and this would be just a concrete class. That's exactly how you should think of this. So you should basically think of this inheritance hierarchy just collapsing to an object that is, you know, either one of these subclasses, that that's how you should think of this. Cool. Other questions. Other questions about software engineering. We have five more minutes. You can ask anything. Anything you want to know about software engineering? Now I have five minutes. Yes. What's my cloud code set up? Um, I usually like to use it from the from the main app rather than from, uh, from VS code. Um, uh, I usually run, um, different agents for different kinds of either changes or for different kinds of, um, um, parts in the system. You want to you want to use the agents in a way where they, um, where you use one agent for one task so that you don't overload the context window. They have limited context window. So you want to make sure that you ask the same agent only questions that are similar to or like only perform tasks similar to what they've done before. So you want to kind of, uh, you want to think about this. This is why these classes are still relevant in the age of AI. You want to think about what are the what is the impact of this change on different classes. And then you want to basically send one agent that already knows about this code on this task. Uh, you want to make you want to think about what is the kind of complexity of the task to pick whether you use opus or, or sonnet or haiku, because you don't want to use opus for every single task, because then your tokens will just be drained out very quickly. Does that answer your question? Yes. Cool. Yes. You feel like agent skills to be a good representation of design. I have one of those. Yes. Uh, I have a I have a design pattern skill in my and my cloud setup where, uh, it has a hierarchical skill, so it knows what design patterns are and knows what design patterns exist, has the intent of all of the design patterns, and then it has a separate knowledge file for each of the different design patterns. Um, so yeah, I believe that's going to that's going to be the future. Um, I don't know. I mean, I'm not an AI expert, but I would guess that a lot of the, you know, pattern knowledge that we teach students would probably go into skills. Probably. Um. But. I think there's still struggle a lot with identifying when is the right time to use them. I think so the way how I would use current models is by instructing them to use this design pattern. So I think your your responsibility as an engineer is more and knowing when to apply them and when to tell the AI to use the design pattern. And then the AI knows how to how to use the design pattern even without the skill, because it has read like these design pattern descriptions over and over again. So this has been like, I don't know, probably duplicated a million times in its training data set. Um, so it knows all of these design patterns, but your job is still to know when to apply them. So this this is maybe if you want to focus on what other skills that you think you will need over the next ten years, this is what I would focus on. Other questions. This is fun. Yeah, I'm quite impressed by what Claude can do. Um, especially if you if you set it up with the right, you know, uh, knowledge. If you if you know what kind of knowledge you have to feed it for the specific task. Um, so, uh, uh, when on Tuesday, after the lecture, uh, you folks asked me to create a Java tutorial. I was like, I know exactly what I need to tell my Claude agent to come up with a good first draft. Uh, this is why I said I'll do it. Uh, without Claude, I would have just said there's no way that I can get you a Java tutorial in time. Because, um, uh, I have a tutorial creation skill in my cloud set up that knows about all of the pedagogy of creating tutorials. Uh, and then I, I like to do a deep research on the, uh, mistakes that students do, uh, and then create, um, like a document format, a document on this. And then I usually get, uh, a first draft that needs, uh, a lot of refinement, but that is still, you know, like saving me probably ten hours of time. Um, so I think, I think if you haven't been using any of the AI tools yet and you are about to graduate, uh, I would recommend you to maybe try to use some of them, because if you're close to getting in the real world, you want to have some exposure to the current tools and you want to have some experience with with how to use them and what what they are good at, what they about it. Um. They can do a lot of things, but they also they struggle with very, very basic things that, like, nobody in this class would struggle with, like even the best models struggled with that. Like, uh, just last fall, uh, it couldn't even solve the 35 L midterm on the. Good question. So I showed it, uh, this is the git status output. What git commands have you run between the last push and git status? My students in 35. I also struggled with this, but, uh, it was fun to see that all of the I got it wrong. Literally all of them got it wrong because it has, uh, you have to reason about different complex sequences of commands and state, which they were really bad at last fall. Now they are now all of them get it right, uh, in the thinking mode, not in the fast mode and thinking mode. They all get it right in the fast mode, they don't get it right. So it's very interesting to see how, you know, the skills of AI are growing at a very, very rapid speed. And when I ask my, my friends in industry, um, sure, if I told you this already, um, I want to start with your exit ticket. Um, if you haven't, um, uh, when I ask my friends in industry, what's the what's the difference between, uh, solutions to get from AI versus the solutions you get from your junior engineers, which is, you know, going to be you? Um, and, uh, my friend said the main difference is not in quality. Quality is exactly the same. Um, AI is faster than junior engineers, but junior engineers, they they are better at responding to feedback. Uh, so when the senior engineer says you should do this instead, junior engineers are better at applying this the next time they work on the task. So that that has been the main difference between the the main advantage of the junior engineer with skills. Now, I'm not necessarily that confident that that difference will continue to exist for a long period of time. Um, so this is why I think. It's really exciting to teach computer science specifically at this point, because I feel like this is a very crucial moment for people who are not yet in the workforce. Um, because I has a lot of skills that are really economically valuable that, uh, you know, my, my 35 students don't have yet. You have many of these skills, but most of all, students don't have that. So they are, um, at a lower skill level than I. Um, and AI has been up until now. Has been growing its skill curve faster than humans. So, um, it's not going to be easy for everyone to outgrow AI. Um, but I think that that that should that should motivate you to use your educational experience as an opportunity to learn as much as possible and to make sure that, you know, once you graduate, once you go into the industry, your skills are, you know, as competitive as possible. Because I, I think that what has happened in the past ten years that everybody who graduates with a computer science degree instantly gets a really high paying job. Um, I think that will selectively be true for, for good. Students who have developed strong skills will have a lot of experience. For those students, it will still be true, but I don't think it will be true for everyone. Um, so yeah, this is why I think it's it's important for students to notice that, um, this is not the time where you want to replace your skill acquisition with AI, but this is the time where you want to get ahead of AI. This is the time where you want to outsmart AI, where you want to grow your ability to, uh, maximize your own continual learning. Because continual learning is one of the few things that the AI committee is still AI companies still haven't really fully figured out. So your continual learning ability right now is your most valuable asset. So you should use it. You should you should focus on using your continual learning ability as much as possible. That's my advice. Um, and we'll have more concrete advice on how to use AI correctly, uh, in software development in, uh, one of the last lectures. I put it in the end because I thought it's good to, um, good to study the theory first. But, um, if this if this interest in moving the lecture a bit earlier, maybe we can we can restructure the plan a little bit. Um, I think especially students who are about to graduate, I would definitely recommend them to get a little bit of exposure to AI in this course project. So in this course project, uh, just in case, uh, you're not familiar with our policy. So we do allow you to use all kinds of generative AI technology that you would like to use. You are welcome to use anything you like. Uh, you just have to tell us that you have used it. Um, and, um. Yeah. Again, my recommendation would be to use AI to do more and not to do the same thing in less time. Because if you replace your own work with AI, then you will probably be replaced by AI. So, um, this is why I would recommend you to use AI in a way that increases. Uh, yeah. That that feels like your your brain is working more, not less. Um, because, yeah, you need to think of your last years in college kind of as a workout. Like, you want to train your muscle at the end of college. You want to have the strongest muscle. You want to. You want to look like, um, uh, you want to look like like, uh, Professor Rainman, right? Like he has a very strong body, right? You want your brain should look like, uh, Professor Rainman, right? So do you want to go to the mental workout? Uh, not to the. You don't want to send the robot in the gym on your behalf? Um, yeah. Okay. Yeah. Please fill out your exit tickets. Yeah.