[Auto-generated transcript. Edits may have been applied for clarity.] Is really cool. Um, let me just message my to. Hmhm. But yeah. By the way then. This basically means there may not be a. An exit ticket today because proven learned. Don't. Yay! Huh? Yes. I think you misunderstood. We are robbing you of the opportunity to, uh, to submit your exit ticket, which is. We can collect them in person. Let's collect them in person today. They, um, empty pieces of paper where you can. Does everybody have some paper? We might need paper today. Uh, if I go to bird paper or the hacking. Yeah, I think it still works for me. But. Yeah. When did you. Did you do it in the morning? Because in the. In the afternoon. Uh, yeah, I just woke up, so. Oh, you just woke up. Okay. So, um, let me maybe show you what? You have. Right. Now, you know, I mean. I mean, it's it's fine. There's probably happened before I think that happened before. So it's not going to be the first time that this happens. It hopefully will be the last time. But, um, where's my testing lecture? Testing part. Oh, we didn't finish part one. Let's finish part one before we move. Yeah. Always. Huh? I could post it on Piazza. Let me post on Piazza. Right. Yeah, I think there was. I think I saw it on my phone. There was a question like, literally right now let me post this on. Um, you just post both of them because you might not have downloaded the part one. Let me add this in here. Okay. Oh, I can't select multiple files. If people just would know about software engineering, if they would have just learned how to do software engineering, this world would be so wonderful. I mean, it is wonderful already, but it would be even more wonderful. Okay, so if you want to have access to the PDF slides, you will be able to download them from Piazza. Um. Because when you try to go to Peru and learn, you'll see the Peru and learn temporarily unavailable. Um, there is, I guess they describe it as a nationwide outage. Um, which. As you know, people who have taken 35 L which everybody here should have, um, should know is indeed a security property, which what is the CIA triad? Who remembers a CIA triad of security? What? Mm. Yes. To confidentiality. Mm. Uh, integrity and availability. Availability. And we have all experienced today the unavailability of, uh, a beloved software system. Okay. Uh, where did we. Finish off. Okay. Second. I believe we finished right here. Okay. And then we will. Of course, as always, record this lecture as well. Yeah. So I recommend you to still, you know, um, we call your exit ticket because, um, the whole point of the exit ticket is not for you to submit it, but for you to recall the information, because research has shown that, um, recalling what you've learned in an exit ticket is solidifying your memory much more than watching a recording of this lecture afterwards, which I think is incredibly impressive to ten minutes to spend on. Just recalling what you've learned is more effective than watching another, um, a 110 minutes of recording. Okay, so we've covered. Coverage criteria. Last lecture. What a coverage criteria. Mm. And what what kind of metrics do we have there? I like her, like I like her. The brand. Yeah. I think. Yes. One more. What is the. What is the yes. Path coverage. Exactly what is path coverage? Um. Like combination. Yeah, it's all of the, uh. Yeah, execution paths through the program. That's right. Yeah. Okay. Uh, yeah. So basically, every route through the program has been executed. Um, and we talked about this, we talked about an a control flow graph and. Okay. Yeah. So we want our branch coverage to be, uh, as high as possible. Uh, we want to make sure that all of our tests, uh, executing both the true, true and false branch of our programs. Um. Let's look at this program. We want to generate test cases for this program that have 100% branch coverage, 100% branch coverage. Think about test cases that that achieve 100% branch coverage for this program. Okay. Talk to neighbor. Okay. Any suggestions? Yes. And another being like all of them? Yep. That's right. Yeah. So yeah. To keep the other one. Um, yeah. So we basically have three different, uh, we have three different conditions. We have x greater than one, y greater than two and z greater than three. And they are indeed all independent of each other. So we want to double check that the, you know, path we've taken here still then make the following paths feasible. Right. Um, so we want to yes, pick exactly these kinds of cases. And the focus is a moment in the right place. Yeah. So we can yeah. Basically pick exactly the same example. So we can have all of them being zero and then all of them being greater than the, uh, comparisons here. Okay. Yeah. So branch coverage means that we want to generate a set of inputs that covers all of the, uh, independent branches. That's my one too. Yeah. So the first test case is covering, uh, all of the tree branches, which leads to 50% branch coverage. And then the second test case is covering all of the fourth branches. Uh, this is a good strategy that you can try for when you try to increase it reach 100% branch coverage, but it's not going to always work if they are, uh, not independent. Um, what we've done here by coming up with these test cases, these two test cases, has this been whitebox testing or has this been black box testing? So last week we talked about yes Nathan White is that ways that. You're testing based on. That, you know. That's right. Yes. So we've generated the tests by looking at the code, which is exactly the definition of whitebox testing. Is this unit testing, component testing, integration testing or system testing? Yes. That's right. It's just the single function that we're testing. So, uh, this is, uh, always, you know, testing. Okay, uh, let's look at a slightly more complex program. Uh, we call it complex fun. And we have these three test cases. So these are the three input test cases that we have. Now we need you to draw a control flow graph. And then think about what is the maximum number of paths for the above program. So this is kind of like if we wanted to reach a 100% path coverage, what would be the minimum number of tests that we would need to reach 100% path coverage? Okay, I think this one is maybe a little bit longer. Maybe I should have told you that you should bring some paper, because in this lecture, you may have to draw a little bit of control flow graphs. Maybe you should create an online version of that. That will be fun. Okay. Can someone describe how our control flow graph would look like for this program? How does our control flow graph look like? Anybody want to be, um, courageous? Yes, Elliot. Oh, uh, so you start. You have, like, a square to say your value to zero. Mhm. You have another square to say your eye to zero. And then you and her, uh, condition stay low with a diamond. If your eye is less than two, you go down your sire a to the rare eye. And if you're in another condition, a larger one K you add a two value as it else. Honestly from, um. And then you go back to your first time I love you are I like after you adding like do I was plus and then if that's a no you go to. Exactly. Oh, Lord. Exactly, yes. So we have a for loop here. So the for loop makes this a little bit nontrivial, right. Because we don't really have a control flow structure that is specifically designed for, for loops. But for loops are basically the same thing as while loops with just some statements uh, using syntactic sugar. So when we encounter a for loop, we want to, uh, separate this into uh, first the statement that is setting it to zero. And then we have our condition, uh, that's our loop. And then at the end we do our plus. Plus we have a condition here. And then our control flow graph will look like this. Uh, yeah. So we start with the program of begin. Then we, uh, we have we assign value to zero. We assign it to zero. This is from the, uh, for loop. Then we have our condition in the false branch. We just return. So then we don't have any additional control flow from here in the true branch. We, you know, have this part of the loop that has a condition here and then goes back to our condition after we've added the I plus plus from the end of the for loop. Okay. Only one student raised a hand. Does this make sense to everybody else? Okay, so you were just not courageous enough to raise a hand, but you still came to a similar conclusion. Or at least it makes sense. Okay. You may have to do something like this and homework that will be released today or tomorrow. And this is always a very welcome question on exams. Um. Now the second question was how many paths do we have through this program? Yes, for my fourth. Exactly. Yep. So for is the answer. We have four maximum paths for the Complex Fun program. Okay. Then we learned these three different kinds of, uh, coverage statement coverage, branch coverage, and path coverage. Which one is the most restrictive? The one that's the hardest to achieve. This is going to be a question not for people who have received candy today. This is going to be a question for people if not yet received candy today. Yes. Yeah. That's right. Why pass coverage? That's right. Yep. So path coverage subsumes all of the other. Okay. What is the number of paths? If there are N branch executions and there are no infeasible paths. So we have uh, n different, um, if that are executed. All of them are. What are false? True or false? Because you could have, like switched. Oh, yeah. Yeah. So it's a true false branch. It's a true false branch. How many do we have? Yes, due to the power of the project. Exactly. Yes. That's right. That's right. Through to the end. This will be important. Yeah. So we, uh, have an A for loop. We have this end, and then we have this k times. Um. Right? I mean, if k times. If they're not in physical path of the person independent of each other. Yes to to the end. Right. Okay. Oh, this is just the example from, um. Oh, oh. Now. Okay, now I remember. Okay, so we have, uh, we have a condition here that is, uh, executed k times inside of a loop. Uh, that is executed n times. Okay. If there are K branch executions in a loop. So we have k of these fs we have k of these IFS inside of a loop that's executed n times. K ifs in a loop. Okay, Elliot. Often times. That's right. Exactly. If we unwrap the loop. That's exactly the way we want to think about it. So we have this loop. And we often have a hard time reasoning about loops. So we in our head, we unwrap the loop. And if we unwrap our loop we then have these k branches n times. So if we have k times and branches then it's two to the n times k if they're all independent of each other. Yes. Okay. Does this make sense? So whenever we want to reason about branch executions and we have a loop, we want to, in our head kind of unwrap the loop, we want to think about an equivalent program that does not use a loop. Okay. Good. What challenge might arise with coverage metrics if we want to achieve? Test accuracy. So let's say we want to measure the quality of our tests only with branch coverage path coverage statement coverage. This is the only measure we use in our company to measure how good our tests are. If we tell our developers, you always have to reach either hundred percent branch coverage or statement coverage or path coverage. What might be a problem with that kind of policy that is purely oriented around coverage? Yes. Yeah. That's not necessary. I can add a lot of overhead. How is that the case? It's like there's, like, tests that have to use. Mhm. I have to complete, uh, my set of policies in my company. It's something you might not necessarily like. Test. Right. Yeah. Sometimes uh, sometimes having like 100% path coverage is just not really viable. Uh, and then there are maybe some valuable tests and some invaluable tests. Any other ideas besides this one? I think there were a few other hands. Yes. Right. So our behavior might also differ from just branches and pets. But they could also be values that we receive from an external component that then has a large impact on oops, uh, or like the values that we send. Yeah. Oh okay. Like the number of iterations could vary depending on like different factors. Sure. Yeah. Um. Any other thoughts? Any other thoughts? So we've. We've found some reasons why it's not a good idea of why it's not sufficient. Any other thoughts? Yeah. I think that compared to. Account for that. All right. So at the same time right. So we had this issue with the singleton right. Where the singleton really only has like two different branches. Right. But it's uh, there's still a lot of different behavior going on if we have some concurrency. Yeah. Exactly. Our test might be written in a way that is not actually maintainable. Very brittle. Shane. You don't know where. You're testing. Just correct output from correct input. We don't know where it's going wrong. Um, that is true. So if we if we write our tests in a way where they only check the output, but we've not actually. So with this, with this criterion, we've not actually checked any output yet. Right. We've just said that we need tests that have 100% branch coverage, 100% statement coverage, 100% path coverage. We've not made any claims about the assertions. We've only, uh, made a claim about the kinds of paths that the test has to cover. We've not added any constraints on what the test should actually assert. This is called the oracle strength. The oracle strength is about the strength of the assertion. Uh, so even with 100% path coverage, if we don't have any assertions in our tests, we only catch bugs that, um, up because of unhandled exceptions or some kind of, um, failure that is happening that causes our system to stop. Uh, but we've not actually checked the behavior. So we in addition to just the coverage criteria, we also want to think about the assertion strength or the, uh, oracle strength. And as a great metric for this, uh, can we maybe think of some metric with which we could measure in theory? Let's say I give you unlimited compute. I give you unlimited compute. How could you measure the strength of the oracle of test. So you have your implementation and then you have your tests. And I'm going to ask you how strong is the oracle of all of the tests. How many bugs can these tests actually find. How could you come up with a metric that is calculable, with enough time and energy to calculate the truth? The true oracle strength of our program. Okay, talk to a neighbor. This one. This one is not easy. This one is not easy. But I'm sure you'll you'll you'll get it. Because last quarter, at least one student got it. Any thoughts? How could we measure the strength of the assertions? Nobody. Okay. Think about it. The purpose of the tests is to find bugs, right? That's the whole purpose of the tests. Yes. Okay. And how can we measure this? In a sense, like there could be a cascade of. Okay. We are on the right track. How can we, um, measure how many, you know, bugs a test could find? How could we measure this? I'm sure you'll get it. I'm sure you'll get it. How can we test how many bugs a test can find? Who has an idea? Yes. Thinking like you could have. Program where you deliver. Okay. So we have our implementation. We have our tests. And then what do we do. You just run the test. You see how many? They are actually like. Okay. I think we are. I think we're getting closer. We're getting closer. Who can who can build on that? So we have one implementation. We have our tests. And we somehow want to, you know, make sure that we want to inject test bugs. Yes. Are you asking how? I was just thinking, like you change the program. Exactly, exactly. We're going to change the program. So we take our implementation, and then we deliberately inject bugs automatically into our program. And then we check if there's at least one test that fails that finds this bug. This is called mutation coverage. So the way how this works is that you automatically. Introduce bugs by mutating elements in the code to do the exact opposite of what they are currently doing. Right. If you, for example, have a less than or equal operator, you can change it to a greater than operator and then suddenly you completely reverse the semantics. You know that if less than or equal was correct, the greater than it's not correct. Right. You don't even need to know the program to be able to say that this is going to be a bug. And then you check how many of these mutations are killed. We call this they killed the mutants. Um. Um, and we check that by basically running the tests, and we see if there's a test that catches this bug. And if there's no test that catches a mutation that is supposed to introduce a bug. Then our, uh, assertions are not very strong. Yes. If you construct like. Don't you worry about the. Are being. Could you repeat this? See? Like so. If you're constructing. It costs other. Like. And then all of a sudden. And all this. Okay, so this this, uh, mutation coverage test is only run to measure the strength of the assertions. Um, so you are introducing kind of like, one bug at a time. Uh, and then you, you see, as a, as a test us as finding it. And if you, if you have introduced something where you're know for sure that it's a bug and there's no test that finds it, um, then you know that your, your tests are not strong enough. If all of the mutations you come up with I found by, uh, by your test, then you have more confidence into the strength of your test. You might not have necessarily thought of all possible bugs, right? If you do use these automatic mutation operations, they may miss some potential bugs. There are also some bugs that only occur if you change two places at the same time. But usually these mutation score metrics, they only change a single place in the code so that they are the. They know for sure that it should be a bug. Um, if you change two places at the same time, then you are not necessarily sure if they cancel each other out, right? Um, so, uh, this is why they usually just change a single place so that, you know, these changes cannot cancel each other out. But then there are some bugs that only occur if you change two places at the same time. Um, we call them strictly subhuman. And how a strictly subsuming higher order mutants. Um, anyways, this this goes maybe too far into into mutation, uh, theory, but, um. Yeah, you want to be, uh, you might want to. If you're interested in this, you might want to read, uh, this paper, which was a, uh, academic sibling of mine, uh, uh, who came up with this metric. And that is a combination of test coverage and mutation coverage. So he calls this the mutation gap. Uh, that's the metric that tells you whether, uh, at any given point in your testing design, whether you should spend more time increasing your coverage or more time strengthening your assertions. Uh, so with this metric, uh, this would then tell you how to do that. Um, but, uh, yeah, the most important takeaway here is that you can't usually just measure your test adequacy with a single metric. So if your metric is just purely coverage, then you might miss some assertions. If it's just purely assertion strength, uh, then you might miss coverage. Okay. Questions about this. Cool. Okay. I think we can skip G-Unit. Does anybody want to learn about G-Unit? Who wants to learn about G-Unit? Okay. J unit is a unit testing framework in Java. Uh. Who knows? Pi test. Raise your hand if you have heard of Pi test. Okay. Um. Genuine is like pi test. Anybody want to learn about J unit? Okay then we're going to skip J unit. And we will instantly skip to. Oh, maybe. Maybe talking about text test fixtures. That's maybe the most interesting part here. Um, so whenever your tests, uh, should operate and operate on a particular type of object, uh, and they want a new instance of this object for every single test. You can introduce a text, a test fixture. So a test fixture is an object that is created from scratch for every single individual test. So you want all of your tests to be independent of each other. If, uh, the order in which you run your test changes whether they pass or fail. Uh, we consider this, um, uh, we consider this flaky tests. Then your tests are not good enough, because your tests should not depend on the order in which they run. Um, they should test whether the behavior of the program is correct. And a test fixture allows it to very simply do this by creating an object in your test case. And then in your setup procedure, you create the object in your teardown procedure. You then um, uh, you maybe disconnect the database, for example. Um. And, um, then for every single test, you can access this, um, test fixture. Um, and it's always a completely newly created test fixture for this example. Um, and this this exists in all testing frameworks. So in Pytest, it's, uh, slightly different syntax, but it's also a fixture, I think in playwright they also have fixtures. So whenever you encounter a situation where your unit tests, uh, needing an instance of an object, then you can save yourself a lot of code to write by creating a fixture and then creating these set up and tear down procedures to basically reuse the code instead of creating this object and then tearing it down at the end of every single test. You, um, define this code here, and you have refactored this code, and then it's just in this place. This this works really well for large test suites that are about, let's say, a new rational object. It's got a test fixture. Questions? Okay, cool. Then I think we can move on to. Oh. Oh, I forgot to show you. Okay. This is cool. Uh, this is a comic on black box testing. A comic on black box testing. So whenever you do black box testing, the difference between black box testing and white box testing is that you want to think about what, uh, things that your user may do, um, with your system. And you want to think of the, uh, equivalence classes of things that a user could do. So when you're testing the bar, then the tester walks into a bar. That's a very common thing that a user may do. And the system does handle this request correctly. So now our tester is thinking of a different kind of user interaction that should also be tested. So a software tester runs into a bar. Then this is a nonstandard request that is correctly handled by our system. Now also software tester crawls into a bar. A different kind of nonstandard request system handles this correctly as well. And now the software tests are kind of almost runs out of ideas of what they could test, but they find out, okay, maybe, maybe, uh, a user could dance into a bar and then the software test that dances into the bar. And now the test software tester comes and thinks of even a more, a crazier user interaction of a user who might fly into a bar. Okay. This is also handled correctly by our system. So now we move on to test another feature. So let's test another feature. Our software tester orders one cup of tea. Okay. Another request handled correctly by the system. Um, the barkeeper hands over a cup of tea. Um, okay, let's see if it works of multiple as well. Okay. A software tester orders two cups of tea, and the system handles this request correctly as well. Let's think of a different. Equivalence class. Let's think of zero cups of tea. Okay. This is a nonsense request that, uh, you know, should still be handled correctly in the system, does it? Uh, very, very well. Now this off a Tesla. Things of a really large request. Can you please give me 99,999,999 cups of tea, please. And even this request has been handled correctly by the system. Now we're thinking of completely invalid requests. What happens when we want a minus one cup of tea? Does this mean that now the bar is handing over money to the user? No. If it works correctly, the system says invalid input. We cannot handle this request. Perfect. Let's. What a job! Cups of tea. There's this. Also an invalid input. And the system handles this correctly as well. Then our software tester orders a lizard in a teacup. Thinking of some error cases as our error case is handled correctly. And they are. So now testing is complete. So we can now successfully deploy our system. Let's see what happens when we deploy our system in the real world. And this is a very common case. A huge customer walks into the bar and asks, excuse me, why are the bathrooms? And the system has really never anticipated that kind of request. So suddenly the entire bar goes up in flames because nobody was anticipating this. Neither the designer nor the tester, because nobody understands what the user actually needs. And this is why it's really important for you to have a good understanding of what a user needs. This is why we teach you user stories and other aspects of requirements engineering. If you don't understand what the user might do with the system, you will not be able to write the right kind of blackbox tests. Um. And this is this is where I think, at least for a, um, certain number of time, we will still be able to. Have jobs. Okay. I think this is the beginning of. Testing tool. Okay, I think we can take a quick break and then come back in two minutes. Of course I can't do that. Okay. One second. I just need to let my 35 students know how to submit their homework in case of a loan outage. Okay. Okay. In the second part, we are now going to talk about how we're counting the number of loop iterations for bounded programs and generate inputs. So we want to count the number of loop iterations, uh, for uh, for uh programs so that we can estimate the number of paths, which is the number of test cases we will need for, uh, reaching 100% path coverage. The question here is basically how much effort is it to reach 100% path coverage? Or can we maybe write our program in a way that's a bit easier to test or, um, uh, maybe not, um, in a loop free program? As we've learned earlier with K branches, the number of paths is two to the power of K if there are no infeasible paths, if we have loops and the program as we identified earlier, we perform loop unrolling and then the number of paths is two to the power of the number of branches of the unrolled program. If, uh, they are both true or false. Okay. If we look at this example, how many times does this program print? Hello world. So this is the inner loop. What is the number of branch executions in the loop unroll program. So we have a if condition here. And then what is the number of paths in this program. Okay. Talk to your neighbor. Okay, who could do this in their head in 30s? Everybody who can do this in their head in 30s will get an egg in this class. Yes. Well, I mean, not not. I mean, you still have to prove it, but it's okay. Well, I think it's three times because. Three. Just three times. Exactly three times. Um, yeah. Because you have, like, an interview. If the algorithm is only executed one. Okay. So we have the input n. So n is an input. And you said input is one. Oh no. And I don't know. Okay. So if input is n how many how many times does it execute input. Three to the N? Almost. Yes. It's like three plus. He said this again to all the way. Almost. Almost. Okay. Okay. Let's look at this. Let's look at this in a little bit more detail. So the the answer's uh, three to the n plus one minus three half. Uh, and we'll go through this, uh, step by step. Okay. Um. Oops. Oh, no. This is a different. It's a different example. It's a different example. Okay. So we have, uh, n um, iterations here. Um, and then I goes up to, uh, three to the I, which uh, then means that we have, um. Yeah. We execute the, um, the loop three to the power of N. Why? Why does it say three to the power of n plus one minus three half. Oh, because. Because it's, uh. Right. It's, uh. Yeah, yeah. We have we have to apply the math. We have to apply the math. Right? We have to apply the, um, uh, the sum of, uh, um, over n, but we have to apply the sum over n, um, and we have to apply our, our formula. Okay, let's let's look at this based on, uh, uh. The former minus one at the very. Because you start with. They don't include. Yes. Right? Yes. Yeah. That's right. Yeah. So you have three to the N plus one and then minus three half. Uh, and the one is basically kind of like the minus three on top. Um, okay. Let's look at, let's look at uh, this example, um, which is. Almost the exact same one. Right? We have, uh, we have the, uh, outer loop is the same. This loop is the same. And we just have another loop here. Um, and, um, yeah, the question here is how many branch executions do we have and what is the number of paths? So the number of branch executions, uh, here is, uh, of course, dependent on the outer loop of the inner loop and then the, uh, conditions here. So the question of how many J iterations do we have? This is the number from the previous question is uh three to the n plus one minus three half because we have um, the outer loop is uh. End times and then the inner loop as. Uh SJ times it goes up to three to the eye. Uh, so we have a sequence that, um, uh, looks like this. So we know that the number of branch x, the number of inner loop executions, is, uh. Three to the one plus three to the two, plus three to the three plus three, and until we reach three to the end. So we have this. We have this finite sum right. Does this make sense? We have this finite sum because we have, uh three to the power of one times. And then for the next outer loop iteration, we have three to the power of two, three to the power of three until we reach n. So we sum all of these up. And then we can simplify this formula uh, by, you know, applying some math. So we can simplify this by multiplying it with three and then subtracting subtracting from the previous one. And now we have a closed formula. Uh, if you don't remember this closed formula from for math, this is, this is how we could get this by, um, you know, using our intuition. That is, uh, um, you know, you know, you know this for math, right? If you if you see this, uh. These numbers be the same. You can kind of feel like, okay, you can just subtract them and then you end up with three to the power of n plus one minus three. And then you divide this by two and you get the number of times that that j loop is executed. Okay. My sense. Questions about this. Okay, now we know how often the J loop is executed. Uh, now let's look at the k loop. The k loop is, um, looping from uh k equals one to k equals I. So we don't have the power of three here. So we have. So the for the first outer loop execution is exactly one times because I is one. And then for the next time it's two times and then three times until we reach until we reach n. So it's the sum of all numbers from one to n, which this one we may remember from our math class is n times n plus one half. But if you don't remember this, we can use exactly the same approach. So we can um, now think of, uh, if we have, uh, if we multiply our numbers by two, we have this wonderful, nice closed formula, and then we divide this by two. Um. Okay, so now we get our closed formula for the number of executions for the second loop. Okay. Still following. The following. No. Okay. Where did we. Where did we lose you? Okay. So you want to. Do you want to think about what are the potential values of okay. So it starts at one. And then after we've executed it once and we uh, we go up to, we go up to I. So if I start at one and I is the upper bound of the inner loop, then this means we, uh, start at one. And for every single iteration of the outer loop, we increase I by one. So we sum up the numbers from I until we reach the upper bound of I, which is n. Um. Okay. So then we have we have this. This is not a closed formula. So if somebody asks you how many times is the loop executed. And you say one plus two plus three until I they, they can plug this into their calculator. Um, so, uh, you uh, then think about, uh, writing this in a different way and you can just write it in a way in which you, uh, just swap the order. Right? So you start at one and n, and then you have n minus one until you reach one. Right. This is the exact same sum just written in, uh, in the opposite order. Um, and then if we, if we add these two together, this one is n plus one. This one is, uh, n plus two. Minus one. This one is uh n plus three minus two. So they're all, uh. N plus one and how many n plus ones are there? Well, the n times n plus one because there are and cements. So this is why we get two times n is then the sum. And we just divide this by two. And we get our our closed formula here. Okay. This doesn't make sense. If I want to, uh, go back to your math classes. Um. Okay. Um, but to reason about the number of possible paths, we then need to think about the, um, ran next. So we have a condition here, right? We have a condition here. We want to divide rent next by two. Um. How many? Different possible paths. Can we think off for this first part of the program? How many different executions. So if we were to run this program a million times with different, uh, of different, and how many different kinds of executions will we get if we divide a random number by two? Yes. Two for every single execution. This one has exactly two possible values. So then we know this one is, uh, executed, uh, three to the power of n plus one minus three halfs. Uh, and we have exactly two variations for each of them because this is a random number. Um, then we know that, uh, because this is random, each of the random roles could be a possible path. Right? There is no path that we can rule out, because every single path there is possible. Um, however, for the second, uh, condition that we have here, if we have two to the power of K and we divide two to the power of K by two, and we want this to be zero, how many different possible paths can we get there? One, right? Why one? Right. This condition is always true. There are no different values that this condition can have. There is no execution in which this branch could ever be false. Yes. Okay. Because two to the power of K if you divide it by two. Well this is this is always zero because it's always an even number. Um. Okay. Um. So this condition doesn't actually exist, right? If we think about the different possible paths through the program, we completely ignore this condition because this doesn't exist. So then we only get the different branch executions of the first in a loop, but not for the second in a loop. They do not add additional paths through the program. Usually if we have these, uh, loops after each other, they add different kinds of, um, path to the program. So then we have to create we have to test all of the combinations of the two. But because we don't have additional if conditions here that exist, the if condition is just, uh, pretends to be an if condition. Um, if we were to unroll this loop, these if conditions were not would not be part of this unroll program because they don't exist. So this means if we reason about the number of different paths in the program, only the first part of the program is relevant for this. Okay. Does this make sense? Do not see any shaking heads. I also don't see any nodding heads. Okay, I see nodding heads. I see nodding heads. Awesome, awesome. Okay. Yeah. So this is always true because uh k to two to the k mod to as always zero. Uh so this is a determine this deterministic regardless of inputs provided the program. There's only one possible path through this loop. Even though it's a loop there's only a single path. There are no different paths through this loop. So the total number of paths is therefore just two to the power of three to the power of n plus two minus three halves. Because this these were the number of uh executions of the initial F condition. So this was uh, the number of J executions. And if we were to unroll this program, this would mean that this if condition would exist three to the power and so on, uh, times. And because they all exist as different paths, we therefore get, um, two to the power of this as our number of possible paths. Okay. Who? Who loves doing some math. Wow. Okay. We have some students who love doing math. Um, you will get some math in your final. No. What? This kind of math is actually being tested. Oh, oh. Very interesting. Well, um, are you saying that the complex fun program is fun until we actually execute it with an input and have an assertion, which is a test? Okay. Sorry. Meta. Meta joke. Um, okay. Extra point. What if our second branch condition would also be, uh, a random condition? Then the total number of branch executions would be the sum of the previous ones, plus the n times n plus one half. This was the number of branch and the number of loop iterations of the second loop. So if we go back to our loop, this one was executed a three to the n plus one uh minus three halfs. And this one is executed n times n plus one half. So we add all of these together, right? Because we have the unresolved ifs from this. And then we have the unrolled FS from that. So this is why it's the sum of these two. The sum of these two. And then because they are all independent of each other, because they are all random. Uh, this means that this magical sum that we've now come up with is now just the exponent of our, uh, two. And then we get this beautiful closed formula that tells us exactly how many independent branches we have. Okay. Questions about this. You're going to enjoy seeing that kind of question on your final. Okay. This. This is why. This is why in 130, the midterm is a little bit easier than the final, because the midterm doesn't have this. And most students will love taking this class and not as much enjoying that part. But yeah, this this file, we're going to have fewer of these questions. And in the previous quarter they are taking it if you don't like this and then you in the right quarter. Um okay. Practice question. Do you have some time for practice question I have a little bit of time for a practice question. Let's look at this one. Um. Hmhm. This is a nice one. Ooh, I like this one. Okay, I'm gonna give you two minutes to think about the different branch executions. Um. And you should really use this time while you are here to think about this. Because otherwise you'll have to spend the time later when you study. And since you're already here. Yes. Whereas A so A is an array. Uh. Mhm. Okay okay. Um no. Yeah K is defined somewhere else. So let's say let's say we have some array definition here and some k somewhere defined somewhere. So yeah, Kay is not part of any of the loops. It's just some input you can think of in K as an input and A as an input. This one is tricky, so that's tricky. Because of the array. This makes it tricky. It's a question for a number of us. Yes. Uh, yeah. So then the number of. I guess you can also think of the number of loop iterations. And then I use this as a way to determine the number of paths. Okay, Elliot, what are your thoughts? The two of us. What is. What is what is this the answer for? Uh. For the. No, no, I don't think so. Double check to the parentheses. Two to the end. Plus or minus one. Oh, yes it is. Because your second part of it doesn't have any traction. Okay. So this is a good insight. Why does the second loop not have any branching? Exactly. This one is always false. Okay. But if we look at the first loop. Yeah. How many different branches do we have in the first loop? So in each of your. Is that the case? Like if A is something. It can either be true or false right? The they are they somehow related. We're doing okay. So if we unroll this program. Yeah. How many different kinds of conditions do we have? So you say two to the n minus one different kind of conditions. That's true. Uh, but we only compare, um, the, uh, element with index, I with k, right. So we have, we have a lot of different cases in which we plug exactly the same number. Right. Because I just ranges from from zero to n, right. I ranges from zero to n. And we have the same condition like multiple times. Right. Um because we iterate over this, this f multiple times. But uh, our uh, condition is multiple times of uh, the, the first element in the array and then the second element of the array smaller than k, the third element of the array, uh, smaller than k until we reach the nth element of the array smaller than k. So even though you're right we have two to the n minus one, uh, executions of this condition. There are only n different conditions that can happen, and therefore they're only n different paths through the program. Okay. Let's walk through this a little bit slower. So yes, in the second branch this one is always false. So two to the m uh divided by modulo two is always zero. It's never one. So we always execute the else branch. So there are no separate branches created by this loop. This is dead code, right? We want to remove this. This is dead code. And then, uh, yeah. For the first branch, uh, we iterate over it two times to the zero, then two times to the one, and so on until we reach two times to the uh uh n minus one. And then this therefore iterates two times a two to the power of n minus one. These are the total number of times that the inner loop iterates. Uh, but and this is the, uh, important inside here, this evaluates to the same value for every I. So now we have to think about how many different values of AI do we have. And this is, uh defined by the outer loop. So I ranges from zero to n, which means that the total number of paths therefore, uh, is just because we have only n different values, we only have two to the n instead of two to the two to the n minus one. Okay, so this was kind of a trick question, but also not really a trick question because you'll see these kinds of things in real programs as well. Okay. Okay. Uh, so we have a, like, uh, slider on your thumb. How much fun. This is super fun. No fun at all. Oh, wow. Uh, okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. I literally get all values that are possible. That is, uh, good to know. That is good to know. Um. That is good to know. Okay. Then we think about infeasible paths. So when we create tests, we want to think about, uh, what parts of the program are dead code. So what parts of the program are never executed and therefore, um, yeah. Can never be tested. Um, and the mechanism that we have for figuring out whether there is dead code is called symbolic execution. So symbolic execution is a technique that executes the program with symbolic value is not real values but symbolic value. So we define in the beginning. And then in the end we get some logical constraints after we execute our program. And then we can check if there are, uh, logical contradictions between some parts of the, um, program. Um, if there are logical contradictions, then this is dead code. And we've seen some dead code here that is trivial to find out, right? This is dead code. Just by knowing that this condition can never be true. Uh, but there are also dead code that's less obvious. Uh, for example, um. Okay, this one is probably also still one of the obvious ones. Uh, but this one you have to look at multiple statements. So if you just purely look at this condition, you will not know, right? You will not know whether this is a feasible path point, feasible path, because you don't know if X can be greater than one. But if we now look at the previous statement and our previous statement, we see that just right before this condition we assign x to zero, which is not the smartest thing to do. But this leads to this path suddenly being what we call infeasible. It's dead code. It will never be executed for any input in the program. Uh, this will never execute. And we've identified this because we know that the condition, the path condition, the condition that has to be true for this path to be executed is X is greater than one. And the previous um, um, the previous statement is invalidating this. Okay. So far makes sense, right? Okay, good. Then let's move to symbolic execution. The motivation here is basically you want to automatically not with, you know, human reasoning because human reasoning is expensive. Want to figure out which of the paths are feasible and which paths are not feasible. So the key idea is that we identify what conditions need to be true for a statement to be executed. This is what we call the path condition. The path condition is the combination of all conditions that have to be true for this path. That leads to the statement to be executed. And then we check whether this path condition is consistent with the effects of the previous statements. So the effect is basically the change that the uh if that the. Um. I don't want to use the word effect. Uh, it's the, um. Um. It's the guarantee. We know the logical statements that we know to be true after the execution of a statement. So if we have a, um, assignment to a variable, then we know that after we've assigned this variable, the value variable has the new value. And the effect is therefore changing the previous value. Symbolic execution is the means of analyzing a program, uh, to determine what inputs, uh, cause each part of the program to be executed. The idea is that for every variable we have, we just assume that we use a fresh variable at the beginning of the program. And then, um, we update the, uh, the state as we must unroll our loops. And for each branch, we then propagate both the true and the false evaluations. So in symbolic execution, we want to, in the end, have a kind of closed formula that describes the effect that both of these branches have on the values of our program. Okay. Let's look at this based on an example. So this is a very, very simple example. We uh say if x is greater than one then x will be assigned to x minus two. In all other cases x will be assigned to two times x. So, uh, what is the path condition of statement one? Let's start with the easy question. What is the path condition of statement one? What conditions have to be true for this to be executed? Yes, exactly. What is the path condition of statement two? Why does it? Yes. Exactly. Okay, that was easy. So we have our path condition. So this is just the negation of the first condition. And then, uh, the effect of assignment is, uh. Changing the variable to the new new value. So if we have an assignment x equals x minus two. The effect of this statement is x prime equals x minus two. If we have this assignment the effect is x prime equals two x. And then we combine the effect of the statement with its path condition to end up with the effect of the first statement combined. If x is greater than one and x prime equals x minus two. And for the second statement we also combine this with its path condition. And then because we know it's an if statement, we know exactly one of the two will be executed. Um, this means we can then combine this I guess, with a logical XOR, but because the path conditions are, um, initially exclusive, we can just use them or. So the combined symbolic execution result of this program is this logical formula. So this is combining all of the different paths with the path conditions combined with the effect. Okay. Does this make sense? Any questions about this? I'm a little bit worried that I'm not getting questions, and I'm not getting questions for a difficult topic. This is not usually a good sign. Okay. If you have questions like we're not going to judge you. This is different from the kind of maybe, maybe this is too easy for you. Maybe no questions just means everybody gets it. Because I guess UCLA does have the reputation for being a slightly more theoretical program. So maybe this is all super easy for everyone. If it's not, that's totally fine. Raise your hand. Not going to answer your question. Yes. I guess to the point of this great question what is the point of symbolic execution? So the point of symbolic execution is that, let's say if we have, um, some statement that we would like to cover with our, um, um, with our tests, we want to identify what are the inputs that we have to put in the program to identify to cover this line. Um, and symbolic execution can give us this answer. Uh, another reason why we want to run symbolic execution is to figure out if there are path conditions that are mutually exclusive. So if we then continue this kind of, uh, uh, symbolic execution, let's say this another if condition then uses the value of x and a later part of the program, then we could identify that there are, uh, uh, logical constraints that are logical contradictions of each other. And then we would be able to automatically, uh, deduce without human reasoning, um, and without just purely looking at the, uh, conditions in the program. So the only, um, infeasible path to seeing before our logical contradictions in the individual conditions. Now we are reasoning through multiple executions of the program, and we're trying to identify contradictions between the effects and, uh, and, and path conditions in the program. So this a use. I like how is this like done in the real world? How is this done in the real world? Great question. So when you are, um, using static analysis of your programs. Okay. This does work. Let us work. Okay. Uh, when you use static analysis of your programs, it will sometimes tell you, um, this condition is not possible. Um, or there could be a, uh, null pointer dereference. Uh, symbolic execution is basically running in the background of, uh, figuring out, um, these logical constraints that are then used to show you, um, uh, these warnings you get from your compiler. So your compiler, your static analyzer, they use symbolic execution. Um, and for, um, for you as a developer, it's useful to run the symbolic execution of your program to identify the specific inputs that you have to select to cover all of the paths. So initially with, uh, as the question of how many different test cases do we need to reach 100% branch coverage, 100% path coverage with symbolic execution, you actually can automatically, uh, find values that cover all of these paths automatically. Um, so this this technique helps you to automatically select the inputs that cover all of the paths. Okay. Great question. Yes. To optimize performance. I don't think they use symbolic execution. For performance optimization. Um, yeah. I don't think that would be the case. Okay. Cool. Now let's look at this program. And we want to see if there are any logical constraints that contradict each other. That would then tell us that there are some infeasible paths. Okay. So you want to draw the control flow graph. You want to think about what are the number of paths. Uh, just purely based on the syntax. Uh, and then you want to think about, uh, can we run this symbolic execution approach to figure out if there are logical constraints and that mean that maybe one of these conditions is never true? Okay. Okay. I'm going to give you two minutes for this one and then we'll see how far we get. How many minutes do I have left? Oh 2%. Okay, I should probably stop my zoom. In that case. So that we are able to. Proceed. And. No power mode. I still have. Code open. It's not a good thing. Okay. Okay. What did you come up with? Any infeasible paths. Yes. Why is it infeasible? Somebody has done that, uh, quadratic formula. Great. Yes. Okay. So our control flow graph. Looks like this. So yeah, we start, uh, um, if x is smaller than four, if this is false, uh, so if it's true, then we return zero. And where we reached the end, uh, otherwise we have a few assignments. This is basically just, um. Yeah. Copying these statements over. Uh, then we have our condition. We have our different values here. Uh, and so far, so good. But when we look at the logical constraints that, uh, are created by the effects that these assignments have in combination with their conditions, their path conditions, we will realize that the L side is indeed dead code. Uh, because, um, if we plot the, uh, curve of our Y equals three times, uh, x plus one and, um, x squared, we see that, uh, if we, uh, greater than four, we will not have any cases in which the red curve is greater than the blue curve, which is what is going to happen here. And since we exit the program, in the case of, uh, x smaller than four, we only reach this point with x equal or greater than four. Okay. So this, uh, basically means our, um, symbolic execution. I can. Maybe I should have put this on the slide. So when we look at our program, we, uh, we see that, uh, this return statement has a path condition of x smaller than four. And because this is a return, if it would be any other statement, this would have a feasible path. This would this path would be feasible. But because it is a return we exit that. This is why you want to draw your control flow graph to see what, uh, um, the paths that are actually know syntactically possible. And then you'll see that, uh, you know, the return is happening here. So this means for all of the other statements, our path condition includes x greater or equal than four. So the, um, symbolic execution result of this statement is value equals zero and x greater or equal than four. Um this is value equals zero and y equals three times x plus one. And. X greater or equal than four. Then for this condition we have know all of these previous assignments and um, this condition and for uh x greater equal than four. So we kind of carry over this, uh, the negation of this condition to all of the statements here. And then we'll see that, uh, this statement has a, uh. Path condition of the negation of this condition and the negation of this condition, and they cannot mathematically be true at the same time. Okay. Who got this? Okay. Well, okay. Very good, very good. I gave you two minutes and you got this. Good. That's good. Who, um, got this while also kind of doing the symbolic execution in their head. Um. One. Two. Three. Okay. Uh, four. Cool. Um, yeah. So as a as a human who has seen a lot of programs, you probably instinctively know, uh, that this x. Greater equal than four propagates, uh, to the other statements. But symbolic execution allows you to do this for really large programs systematically. Okay. So. Yeah. Have seen this. Um. Yeah. So the the goal of finding infeasible paths is for you to know a a is that that code in your program is the code that should not exist or where your conditions are buggy. Usually, having infeasible paths is a sign that there is some kind of bug. Um, okay, now we are running out of, uh, now we are running out of power. So I guess now I have to continue the rest just from my phone. Um. But, um, I can also just finish a bit earlier. Um, I think we are done. With that part mostly. Um. Oh, yeah. The remaining part is just, um. Yeah, the remaining part is just, uh, using symbolic execution for test input generation. And the, um, the key idea here is basically that you want to find inputs to maximize coverage. So you have, um, a program and you want to not have to manually think about what are the inputs that cover all of the paths. You want to do this automatically. And then, um, symbolic execution. I can do this for you. So it basically generates a concrete inputs by identifying the path conditions of each of the paths. Right. So for every single path that you have you can then um. Uh, you know, uh, I guess for every single statement, every single statement, you have the path condition. And then for every single branch, you also have the, uh, the path condition. Um. Yeah, I think we probably do this on, um. At the beginning of Tuesday because I think. Explaining this without the example. It's a little bit harder, but it's also. It's also gives you a little bit of time to kind of digest all of this. Symbolic execution. And then we're going to walk you through the test case generation example. Um on Tuesday. Sorry that my laptop ran on a battery. Uh, I guess I had, uh, 20 programs open the consume power. So I guess maybe four hours of lectures. Uh uh, not that supported by the battery, which took four hours for my book. Anyways, um, any questions or anything else I can tell you about software engineering? Yes. Uh, so you you don't have to submit your exit ticket. Uh, but you should, um, probably still think about it. So when you go home and maybe you don't have the slides here right now, we can. Maybe you can just do the exit ticket together. Let's just do the exit ticket together. I actually like this because this the exit ticket doesn't actually need, um, the test generation part. Okay. In your own words, summarize three key insights you have learned about software testing today. So what have you learned about software testing today? Yes. A local strength is important, right? So just pure test coverage is not important. I think I've seen a hand somewhere over there. Yes. The number of. Like the number of tests you need to do in the variety. And how do we do this? Um, I guess, like, you go through the loops and then you talk about what parts of the loop internal loops sort of the quickest. Yeah. So you look at all of the paths that are actually, uh, different that have different kind of execution. And then once you've done this, you, um, uh, yeah. If all of them have a true and false branch, the number of different branches, then two to the power of the number of branches. Okay. A third insight. If not. Yes. Um. Learning about. Uh, that's very good. Okay, so you've learned that mutation, uh, mutation coverage tells you the strength of your, uh, test cases. Okay. Maybe a fourth one. Who has. Remember the fourth insight. Okay, I hope. The most important thing you've taken away was from the, uh, from the funny comic that it's important for you to think about what, uh, a real human would do with your software. So we teach you this formal analysis techniques that give you the numbers for the different tests. But you want to also think about what a real human would do with your program. Uh, and then think about your test cases from there. Okay. And the second part of the exit ticket, which I think is more interesting, is, uh, so NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory, which is just in Pasadena, around the corner, uh, they have come up with a set of rules that all of the developers at JPL have to follow. Uh, and number two of this rule states give all loops a fixed upper bound. That basically means, uh, you cannot have a loop that goes up to n. You always have to have a loop that has a fixed upper bound. Given what you've learned today, how does this rule make sense? What might motivate this rule? Okay, I'll let you think about this for a second, because this might be obvious to some students, but not necessarily obvious to everyone in the first second. Okay. I think I've seen a new hand somewhere here. Where was a new hand? Did I make it up? Yes. So it's a number of us. Yeah. The number of, uh, fresh executions will be fixed. Exactly. So if you, uh, um, if you conclude that the number of tests you need as two to the power of n and you don't know how large n can be, that means that you would need infinite number of tests for your program. And, um, I can write infinite number of tests. Uh, if you know how to write infinite number of tests and can execute them in a finite number of time. I think you'll probably you'll probably be the most famous person in the world. Um, so the, uh, the goal of NASA and many other systems, uh, is to ensure that they have, uh, tested all of the, um, uh, common cases that can go wrong. And specifically at NASA, you have the challenge that your, uh, your program is, uh, is developed in an environment that is completely different from the, uh, environment in which is executed. So if they develop, let's say, a, um, uh, my favorite example is the, um, uh, Mars helicopter. Uh, so a couple of years ago, uh, JPL has developed a helicopter that they can fly on Mars. Um, which is kind of crazy, if you think about it. Right? Uh, like flying a helicopter on a different planet. Um, especially a planet that has such a thin atmosphere. So, uh, Mars has about 1% of Earth's atmosphere. Um, and you can still operate a helicopter there. So, uh, you want to make sure that you, uh, have successfully tested all components of the system before you deploy it on Mars, because, uh. You may run into some specific situation. And because Mars is at least roundtrip, I think 20 minutes. Um, I think 20 minutes is the minimum round trip between Earth and Mars. Uh, depending on the constellation, it can be much longer. So, like, if there is a bug, you can't really tell the the helicopter to, uh, behave in a different way. So you the helicopter has to be fully autonomous, like, basically when the helicopter takes off and finishes their flight. Uh, like, uh, Earth will receive the signal of the takeoff after the helicopter has already landed. Right? So you want to make sure that you can test, um, your system effectively, and, um, um, yeah, this this has some, um, programmatic aspect to this. This also has a physical aspect to this, but would you guess this is maybe a sneak peek for the Tuesday lecture? What would you guess did JPL do to actually physically fly a helicopter that's designed to fly in a thinner atmosphere and a lower gravity? So Mars has to think about a third of, uh, Earth's gravity, uh, and about 1% of, um, the Earth's atmosphere. How would you test physically test a helicopter on Earth that is supposed to operate in that kind of an environment? Does anybody have an idea? Now we're not talking just about the software testing. Now we're talking about the system level integration testing it operating in an environment that simulates one third of Earth's gravity and 1% of Earth's atmosphere. Yeah. The Zero-G plane. Oh, that will be super expensive. So for the Mars helicopter, they only had like a few million dollars. Like with a few million dollars, you're not going to get, uh, a lot of Zero-G flights, at least not for the kind of length that you would need to have to run these tests. Many, many tests would be too expensive. Yeah. In a video game? Um, sure. I mean, yeah, that that's, of course, the cheapest approach. Uh, that you have some kind of physical simulation that you're running where you simulate the forces, but you still want to make sure that the actual device you built, uh, can operate in somewhat similar situations. Any ideas about that beyond simulation? No. In areas of space where you have. That's more challenging because it's much harder to to simulate the. I guess what I didn't tell you is that the composition of different gases on, uh, Mars is also different. So they have really, really high CO2. They have very little oxygen, and that does somehow. I'm not an aerospace engineer. Maybe in aerospace engineer. Uh, um, uh, hobby aerospace engineer in the audience may know this better, but this this does somehow impact the way how the, um, uh, how the, um, how the air moves around the, uh, the rotors. But what they did is they basically built, built a pressure chamber, uh, where they pull out all of the, uh, air, and then they, uh, make sure that the composition is right. But then what? What might they do about the gravity? How could they simulate lower gravity? Mm. Magnets. Good idea. Good idea. Any other ideas besides magnets? We could have a spring on the, uh, top, and then we could, uh, hang our helicopter on the spring. And that's that's exactly what they did. So they they developed this a pressure chamber where, uh, inside the pressure chamber. The helicopter is like, hanging on a spring that is taking away some of the weight. Basically two thirds of the weight of the of the helicopter. And then they they tested it on Earth. Um, and. Um, yeah, it did have a lot of test flights on Earth. They still ended up, um, um, not actually testing it effectively. Which is really funny. Um, because when I was, uh, an intern at JPL, I built a, uh, program analysis technique and model based analysis technique that helps them find bugs that result from the incorrect composition of components based on their timing properties. Uh, and then it turns out that one of the bugs that was still left in the program that they didn't find in on Earth testing because on or off testing is just really, really hard, was, uh, that they had a watchdog component that was supposed to wait for, um, signals from other components that, uh, had a race condition where in some of the cases, the signals were sent in different order that did not occur on Earth. So their testing plan somehow did not cover this path, uh, in which you have concurrency issues where, uh, your components send messages in incorrect order and that, uh, that did, uh, prevent the first, uh, powered flight that humanity has attempted on a different planet. But because NASA is, uh, well staffed, they, um, looked at the logs and figured out what the bug was. Um, and then a few days later, they uploaded a software patch to the helicopter on Mars. And then, uh, they could effectively launch their, um, helicopter, uh, which I think is as quite incredible when you think about, um. You know, us operating helicopters on on different planets. Um, and, um, when you're working in such an, um, such a domain where, uh, reliability is incredibly important, uh, then you really need to apply all of these, uh, systematic testing approaches. Let's say you, uh, you're going into medical devices. Um, there's a really interesting case study of a system called Thera 25 that had a very similar issue where there are 25. Um, they. Developed a system that was reusing some of the code from an older version. In a new piece of hardware. So they're kind of a radiation therapy machine. So it's a device that is used for patients of cancer. And then it's radiating, putting a specific radiation dose at a specific portion of the body of a patient. Uh, and then um, the uh, nurses have to, uh, plug in certain numbers, uh, so they operate the UI of the, um, um, of the device. And, uh, something that happened, uh, was kind of like an example of the, uh, a grandma coming into the bar asking for the bathroom that nobody expected was that the nurses get so proficient at using the device that they put these to push these buttons much faster than the people did in the testing phase. Right? So they got so used to pushing these buttons that they just push them away faster than, um, anybody did in testing. Um, and that didn't give the machine time to physically move parts, uh, into the positions that they should be. Uh, and that then resulted in a, uh, you know, physical misconfiguration of the machine that, uh, gave patients, I think, like a thousand times the intended doses and then killed, I think, at least six people. Um, and, um, yeah, this is another example of why you want to test your software in the way that, uh, is not necessarily the most obvious one. Um, and, uh, thinking about this systematically based on the different executions of the program and then thinking about what are the different kind of paths that your system can take. Uh, if you're doing this specifically for loops or for conditions, um, you know, then you can do it on a smaller scale if you want to think about in real systems, the in real complex systems, you're not going to be able to cover all of the different paths through all of the different, uh, functions. But you should be able to think about what are the paths that really matter, and then thinking about concurrency issues where events can arise, a different order. That's usually where the bugs are. So when you think about, uh, there may be some cases where events have to be ordered in a specific way, and then if they have to be ordered in a specific way, you want to make sure that they are always ordered in the specific way, or that the system gracefully degrades in a way where they're not ordered in the way that you expect them to be ordered. Um, and um, yeah. So in the case of direct 25, it, it cost people, um, some lives. Uh, in the case of the Mars helicopter, it cost a JPL a little bit of reputation damage, but it was still fine. The helicopter has still exceeded all of the expectations that anybody had has ever had. Uh, I think it flew like, uh, five times as much as it was designed to fly until, um, it, uh, it crashed, and now it's a weather station. Now we have a weather station on Mars. That was a helicopter originally. Um, so, uh, yeah, I think this, uh, these testing concepts, they they can really make a, they can really make a big difference. And thinking about them systematically, even if you're not necessarily thinking about them from the very formal symbolic execution perspective, you want to still think about what are the important cases that that make a difference. Um, okay. I hope this, uh, end to the lecture was maybe a little bit more interesting than the symbolic execution for test generation, but yeah. Yeah, yeah. So I think I did, uh, okay, I think I did, yeah. Okay, great. Yeah. So we'll continue with with Piazza and great scope for, you know, as long as, uh, this outage continues. Um, and I think the if the outage continues until Tuesday and then we'll, we'll put the exit ticket on great scope, um, so that you can still fill out your, your exit tickets. Just don't have access. That's right. Yes. Yeah.