[Auto-generated transcript. Edits may have been applied for clarity.] She. Chair. Okay. Question. Does everybody have a team and a team idea who does not have a team and a team idea? Great. Okay. It seems like I've lost the clip, so I'll see. I might have to just. Okay, let's see if this works. Um. Okay. Okay. Today we are going to talk about. Design docs and the design process. And you will have to write a design doc for you. Team projects. So. Need to keep this in mind. It. Okay. Cool. For. Doesn't work. Okay. Now. Cool. Okay. So design. Is an activity that. Traditionally comes right after the Clemens engineering. So we have talked about user stories as a technique for um, describing requirements. And now we've taught you some techniques for modeling your requirements and for modeling your design. Now we are going to talk about all of the different approaches that you should take in. Actually coming up with a design. I personally believe that the process of design. Will probably be the most important skill and activity that you will be going through right after graduation, because AI models are getting incredibly good at development, and they're also somewhat of a testing. So at this point in time, uh, in the development of AI design, um, I believe developers will probably spend the most time, um. Over the next few years, and we'll see where it goes from there. So this is why this is a topic that I think is really, really exciting. And at CMU, a colleague and I, we created an entire one semester course just on design. Um, and this is kind of supposed to be a short summary of all of the most important aspects of this. The reason why you want to think about design is that early design decisions often become the load bearing walls of your architecture. You sometimes see people say, uh, this is maybe your your manager is saying, just keep coding, just keep coding. We can always fix it later. Right. It's called software for a reason. Because it's soft. We can quickly change it, but that's not necessarily the case for many of the design decisions that have a large impact. So there are going to be some design decisions that are going to have a really, really large impact that if you want to change them, it's going to be a large, uh, structural change and you want to identify what are the changes that are most likely to happen, and you want to think about your architecture before you start coding. So the idea that you can just incrementally build up your architecture, sometimes we call this an emerging architecture. Um, in practice that's not often working out very well. The more experience you have, the easier it will be for you to identify what are these really important design decisions that are going to have a large impact, these architecturally significant design decisions. Um. Yeah. So it's often a bit harder to do when you have not had a lot of experience. So this is maybe a little bit a more challenging topic, uh, for some students. Let's dive in some, some, uh, theory on design. So when you. Imagine that there are going to be two, one, 30 teams, team A and team B and team A has uh, been tasked to, uh, design a software system. And they have produced one very, very detailed design option that put a lot of detail into all of their UML. They've thought about every single navic ability. Uh, and team B has produced three different design options at a much higher level of abstraction. They have thought about different kinds of designs. What do you think? Which team has come up with a design that wants to implement it is the best product? Talk to a neighbor. Just get better. Yeah. What is better? Better means, um, it's more changeable in the direction it's supposed to be. It's safer. It's robust. Uh, whatever the goal of your product is, it's doing this at a, uh, at a higher utility. I think you're here for the first word you chose there. That's more changeable. It gives a little bit of a head, maybe, but the the software will be more changeable. Not necessarily the design. So it's like okay. Any guesses? Any guesses? Yes. Team b y team B compare cost. Exactly. Yes. Team B um, there has been research on this, and this is kind of cross-disciplinary. This is not just software engineering. Whenever you ask people to think of multiple design options, they come up with a better design. If this is software, if this is, um, UI design, if this is, uh, describe the most beautiful teapot, um, the people who think of more design options, uh, generally speaking of distributions will produce the better option. Okay. Now how about three versus five? What do you think? Which team comes up with a better design? The team that thinks of three options or the team that thinks of five options. Any guesses? Any guesses? Yes. They have for like 2.3. You guess three. Good guess. But, uh, in this case, five is the sweet spot. So around five options. That's kind of where the sweet spot is. Um. Of course, three is better than one, but five is better than three. So you want to kind of pick a wrong. You know, five is not always, uh, possible to think of five options, but five is kind of. In general, the sweet spot seems to be the most done work by Mary Petrie, an amazing, uh, empirical methods researcher and software design in Great Britain. She does a lot of this research where she, uh, talks to, uh, high performing teams and then identifies what is what are the, uh, design processes that they follow to reach, uh, high quality of their options and many of her insights, uh, in this lecture. So you want to think of many different design alternatives. When you think of a good design, you want to think of a better one. You want to think broadly of diverse range of options. And I think outside of the box, think of options that are different from the ones you have first thought, because research has shown specifically for younger engineers, and that includes you folks, uh, when you prompt them to think of more different options, they almost always, uh, create better options. Uh, so if you don't have anybody prompting you to think of options, you have to create this prompt yourself. Uh, always prompt yourself. Think of more options before you start implementing. You want to think of the design process as these two different phases, the generate phase where you want to broaden up. You want to generate as many options as possible without thinking too much, without thinking too much about the quality. You just want to generate as much as possible the kind of brainstorming stage. And then after you have generated a lot of different design options, then in the next step, you want to narrow it down to ideas you want to evaluate. Maybe try this. Okay, let's see if this works. Okay. There are two different kinds of design processes. The one that generally works best for junior engineers is called the rational design decision making process, and the rational design decision making process. You think of a lot of different options and then um. Uh, so first, first, of course, you think about the requirements, uh, what is important in your system. Then you think of many different design alternatives, and then you pick each of the design alternatives, and then you evaluate it in the dimensions that are important in your requirements. So this can include functional requirements. Of course if it doesn't support the functionality you want well it's not a good idea. Uh, but also the nonfunctional requirements if you identify that performance is important, that availability is important. The changeability modularity, the all of these are important. Then you pick each of the different design options and you're evaluated into these different dimensions. And then you realize that there uh, is usually not one option that is just better in every single dimension. There are usually some subset of the options that are generally better in one dimension, but then another. And then you have to think about what what are the trade offs you need to make. What in your specific context, is the right trade off to make based on the evaluation of your design options? Uh, so this is the multi-dimensional trade off optimization, uh, process that you're going through. Um, if you follow this process for every single major design decision you are making. You are generally leading to a better decision. Yes. Question. Um, so based on where you are in the process sometimes, isn't it better if you make one final and decide to like, incorporate all the features you talked about and what might be better than three or. Great question. So the question was basically, uh, does it make sense to go through this design process, uh, and write a design doc for every single design individually or basically aggregating them together in one large document? Right. Uh, and the answer is always kind of it depends. Uh, so, yes, it depends on the, uh, on the situation where you are in an agile development process. You generally go through this process multiple times for every single iteration of every single feature you're developing. You want to go through it, I would say, and multiple, uh, levels of abstraction. So you want to do kind of broad design first, and then you want to do more iterative, more detailed design later. That's kind of the recommendation I would give. Um, but yeah, unfortunately there's no kind of cookbook or rulebook that says in this situation I have to do this. In this situation, you have to do that. And I think to some degree, it's kind of good that this rule book doesn't exist, because if this rule book would exist, maybe next year your job wouldn't exist anymore. Because if the rule book exists and I can read it and then I can do your job. Uh, so you still need to use all of your cognitive abilities to, uh, if there would be an algorithm that somebody could follow that could tell you this is the algorithm, always follow this algorithm. Then I guess, uh, you might have much higher, uh, challenges getting a job, because then I could do it. So in that case, it's maybe a good thing that this algorithm doesn't exist. Um, also, when you, uh, consider the psychological aspect of decision making, there's a really interesting cognitive bias. It's called anchoring. So psychology research shows us that people tend to be very strongly influenced by the initial design decisions they're making. So, uh, this is the design. And then, uh, instead of, uh, shipping on a large ocean, they anchor around one spot and they let down the anchor, and then they circle around this one spot. It's called anchoring bias. Only thinking of design decisions that are similar to the first ideas you've had. Everyone goes through this, uh, you want to invest cognitive effort in trying to avoid this. You want to think of ideas that have as little in common with the initial ideas as possible. So you want to specifically think of different ideas are as different as possible from the ones you've initially thought of. And then, of course, many of them might be pretty bad, because maybe your initial idea was actually pretty good because you have a lot of experience. Uh, but this is why we have these different phases of generation and then evaluation. We want to first generate as many as possible, and then we want to narrow down later because there might be one, uh, completely out of the box idea that we've not initially, uh, considered that, um, can, uh, yeah, treat us a better design. So we want to specifically think of the weaknesses of the design options we've already considered to then help us, uh, consider new ideas that are completely different. Don't anchor. Okay, then let's go through this process together. We want to create a software system that. Transfers data between different locations. So we are a company. We have, um, offices here in L.A. And then we have offices in New York, and we have offices in, um, in France and in Singapore. Um, what kinds of different ideas can we all think of to transfer data from LA to offices in different places in the country, in the world. Talk to a neighbor. Think about as many different options as possible. Okay. 30s brainstorming. Oh, yeah? Yeah. Right. Yeah, yeah. Such as? Uh. Like if you're my. I mean, that would not optimize for life. Okay. What idea is on your mind? How can we how can we get data from here to other places? Yes. We can have a carrier pigeon. Yes. Very outside of the box, I love it. There has been an article in the New York Times just a few years ago that was basically like one of the situations in which, uh, using a carrier pigeon is actually more effective using the internet. And there are quite a few situations and that in which that's actually the case. Yes. You can have a plane draw the data on this guy. That's an even more out of the box idea. I have not even thought of this. Uh, I'm not sure if it's a very good idea. It's not very efficient, but it's a good idea. Okay. Any other ideas? Yes, like P2P or server? Yes. Yes. So we can we can have a peer to peer or a client server architecture. So we could have a central server where we store all of the data. And then everybody is connecting to the central server. Or we can have a peer to peer architecture where everybody has some like local copy. And then we kind of like, uh, send all of the data to all other. Any other ideas? Any other ideas? Carrier pigeons. We draw it in the sky with planes. Smoke signals? Maybe. But then maybe some more practical, but still out of the box. Yes. Like a message in a bottle. Just toss it into the ocean and, you know, like, wait a. I mean, that's not the most, uh, uh, reliable, uh, approach. Can you think of a more reliable approach? Yes. Hypothetically, in 100 years of the moon, increase the distance of entanglement between those two also, you know. That's funny. So. Okay, maybe any other kind of, like, physical, uh, movement technique. Yes. You have, like, the idea of, like, everybody put on your glasses and there will be a virtual meeting room. Sure. Any other? Yeah. Could use Morse code. Morse code, and then over, like the over the actual Morse network? Sure. Yeah. Physically ship it. We can use trucks. Yes. That's a great idea. Actually, uh, the bit transfer rate of fully loaded trucks can often exceed the internet. So if you need to transfer incredibly large amounts of data, trucks are often actually much more effective than the internet. Um. We can. Yes. With your hard drive, we can DoorDash. We can. We can take our own employees. They might be moving from one office to another. Right. Uh, our employees sometimes travel so they can just take them in their own baggage when they are going to another office. Right. This can be very effective for incredibly high confidentiality and security. Uh, approaches. Yes. So, want to get in here? No. Okay. Okay. So, yes, we can have trucks. We can have. So having our employees take it as called sneak cannot sneak in at. So while they are working, uh, to the next office, we can have, uh, decentralized file sharing via a, uh, central. So, uh, where, uh, what peer to peer? We can have, uh, a central data server. We can have carrier pigeons, and then we could have a distributed Raid server. So Raid is, uh, a redundancy protocol where if one of your disks, um, has a failure, you don't lose any data. Don't you know what? Raid redundancy. Something something data, I would guess. Um, but. Yeah. So then we invite all of these ideas on post-it notes, and then our next step, we cluster these ideas by similarity. Okay. Can we identify some clusters here? Okay. Talk to a neighbor. Like is there any like. Yeah. What is a sneak? And that is, uh, people, uh, who are already moving from one place to another, uh, carrying the data on, like a flash drive or a hard drive on the, uh, in the backpack or in their, um, in a purse. Um, that's also a question. This is like you have to have sex, right? Because I saw it all as if I was a surfer. And I was going to classify a whiskey. Is there, like, a strong distinction? So yeah, we'll get there. We'll get the next slide. Yeah. Just show. Okay. What cluster do we see? What cluster do we see? We'd would like to propose one cluster. Yes. Uh, I mean, this is like an I guess you. Cluster, but like, you could just do ridiculous ideas that you brainstorm. And just like, actually, I don't think that's a useful cluster, though. Uh, I don't know. We want to we want to cluster them in a way that's somewhat useful. I think we want to think of, um, clusters that maybe help us figure out some new ideas. Yes. Okay. Mhm. I was like debating between because central data services, centralized and decentralized file sharing is physical as. Clusters. Uh, probably distributed is one of those, too. Sure. Yeah. So. Yeah. What are the classes? Exactly. Yes. And then Sneakerhead also fits into this. Right. So we have we have the physical data transfer where, where somebody is physically moving the data. Um, this includes the trucks, the pigeons, the sneaker net. And then we have some peer to peer communication. So the decentralized file sharing where we just connect all of our existing. And then we have a client server communication where we have to either buy or rent a server. That's the device that we don't already. Have. Okay. Uh, so the the the reason why the distributed rate survey is not in the peer to peer list is because we still have to get to an additional survey. So peer to peer basically just means all of them. All of the devices that are participating in the network are equal. And then the client server communication. Uh, you have a, uh, a dedicated uh or multiple dedicated server devices that, that do not act as clients. Okay. Now we have created our clusters. And then looking at these clusters can then help us figure out some, um, additional ideas that can combine some of the already existing ideas. Right. So we we want to now generate a few more ideas by looking at these clusters and thinking it's going to be some kind of combination between them. Okay. Try to talk to your neighbor to figure out if there maybe some combination of these ideas to create a new idea. Okay, go. I said. Driving trucks. Right. Okay. Anybody want to suggest some combination of the existing ideas? Yes. So you could put the pigeon in the trunk. How are you going to combine those? You put the pigeon in the truck. The pigeon drives the truck. And then we have a data server in the truck. A very creative idea. A very creative idea. I give you that. Let's maybe let's maybe ignore the the physical transport ideas, because I would guess in most situations of a professional career, there might not be the right option. Let's think about some combinations of the other ideas. Okay. Yes. Train multiple servers in each service. Across. You could have some kind of like hybrid system where you connect some of the servers together or where you have, let's say, some some periodic data cloning, where you kind of periodically clone data from each other. Yeah. And then sometimes you can ship service. You can ship your servers physically move your server or hosting like your server. Sure. Yeah. Okay. So we have a central data server and we have distributed rates, a rate server. And so maybe some combination of these two ideas. So a distributed server basically means instead of having one single server, we distribute them across multiple different locations in the world or in the country. Well, we could just have a one central rate server instead of multiple rate servers distributed around the world. Yes. So. Yep. Yeah. And we have a very large network. Uh, yeah. So then we can come up with these additional ideas. So can we have some periodic data, local data cloning where we have a peer to peer architecture. But then we often kind of just pull the data from our peer so that we are not reliant on them, because maybe the downside of the peer to peer system is if that is currently not available, like we cannot get the data. So periodically, uh, um, clone some data and then we can create the central rate server in addition to the distributed rate server and the central non rate server. Okay. So yeah this is kind of how you can how you can think of uh the design process. Right. You want to create as many different ideas as possible. And the these approaches can guide you towards new ideas. So thinking of very different ideas and then combining them in a way, um, that's creating new ideas. And then um, the, the goal of uh, software design is basically for you to, uh, create a design doc that captures all of the different design decisions you have made when you've, uh, uh, uh, thought about a design problem. So the, uh, early identification of design issues is still incredibly cheap. So you remember, I think, from the first lecture or second lecture, uh, that the earlier you identify a problem, um, the cheaper it is to fix. This is why you want to invest time in, uh, achieving this earlier. You also want to create a consensus among the team what kind of design you want to implement. If everybody thinks of a different idea. It's hard to, uh, build a system. So we want to create a document that captures the design that we all agree on. I, we call this a design doc. Uh, and a company that does this quite extensively is Google. Google? Um. It has this large design culture where they try to capture all of the major design decisions in design docs to transfer knowledge between senior and junior developer. So one of my friends, um, that's now a senior developer at Google and, uh, he says the the best way to onboard a new developer is to give them one of the design docs, and then they see all of the important design decisions that have been made. Um, and it's easier for them to understand how the system works. Um, another reason why you might want to, uh, have the skill of creating good design docs and why we make you write design docs is that, uh, the probability of getting promoted is much, much higher when you have good skills of writing good design docs. Uh, so junior developers at Google, uh, don't usually get, uh, promoted only based on their coding abilities, but also on the design doc writing ability that has somehow, to some degree, sometimes led to a situation where once you're done with your feature, you write the design docs so that you can get promoted. But because you're in this class, you're not going to do this. You're gonna you're going to work on the design doc when it's appropriate. And then you can you can get promoted. Um. There has been a really nice blog post on design docs at Google by Matt Up, and uh, he has described it in a way that I think is very, um. Important to realize specifically in the time where we are right now. So he says, suffer. As software engineers, our job is not to produce code per se, but rather to solve problems. Unstructured text, like in the form of a design doc, may be a better tool to solve problems earlier in the project life cycle, as it, uh, may be more concrete and easier to comprehend and communicate the problems and solutions at a higher level than code. As a software engineer, your job is not to write code, which is why your job still exists. Now that we have statistical word calculators, they can write code from design. Uh, if your job was just to write code, you might be out of a job in a year or two. Uh, but because your job is to solve problems on a more abstract level, uh, you want to specifically train your brain to think at a much higher level of abstraction than just the code and design docs. An amazing way of doing this, and I believe that. And in the not so far future, once you've created this design doc, you just hand this to your, uh, AI coding assistant and then they will code it for you. So expressing your ideas in a way that is similar to design docs, I think will be probably one way of of programing in the near future. Designed ops consists of these parts. So the first part is the context and scope. So this describes some background facts usually around the um the existing features in the system or some background facts around um, the specific domain. If you want to implement a specific feature, they require some domain understanding. You want to put this in your context and scope. This is important for the human readers and of course also for the AI readers. And then uh, a section that's about the goals and non goals. So in the goals part you basically describe the functional requirements requirements for attribute specifications. So basically say what is the goal of this piece that you want to design in this design doc. And very important then you also describe the non goals. You say what is explicitly out of scope. What can be ignored. Uh what what is more of a nice to have that you don't actually need. Uh, I think this is, this is something that's often kind of undercooked. So the, the, um, non goals is not saying something like, um, we do not want people to be able to hack the system. That would still be a goal. The non goal is they. For example, if you are if you're developing a new database management system, you might want to include it in your non goals that it doesn't have to be Acid compliant. Right. You say it doesn't have to be as a compliant listing. These non goals in the document explicitly is really important. So that you then have a better idea of evaluating what kind of design space you have. So these goals can be user stories, use cases, qualified admin requirements, everything that you've already learned in terms of, uh, specification of requirements that can go in that section. And then in the third section you describe the design that you have selected. Um, so here you are basically describing some models or some um, um, API descriptions or just some high level text where you're saying this is the option that we've all kind of agreed on. Uh, so this can include class diagrams, of course, sequence diagrams, API descriptions, pseudo code, whatever is relevant for the specific kind of design you want to describe. The important thing is that this is not actual code. This is still at a higher level of abstraction. And then the last section is alternatives that Motivate why this decision was made. Um, Google and most design docs, they put this in the last section because it's less relevant. But this should not be something that you think of after you've come up with the design. So of course, in your design process, as we learned earlier, you first think of all of the alternatives and then you pick the one that's the best in your design doc. You just order them in a different way, but you still think of your alternatives first before you pick the design. Uh, we sometimes see this, uh, with students in this kind of design classes that they pick a design, and then they, they come up with a strawman alternative. Uh, that's just objectively worse in every single way. Don't do this. You want to think of good alternatives before you make your decision? Uh, so, uh, yeah. And then you basically describe the trade offs. So you say, oh, this option was better in this way, but it was worse in this other way. And because, uh, we care about, uh, the one way much more, that's why we picked this particular design. So the context and scope is, uh, describing all of the, uh, properties, for example, for your files, uh, uh, proprietary file system. So we talked about a, uh, file transfer system. This one has 20 different offices in California, New York, Singapore, Dubai, Paris and Sydney. Uh, and then you might want to say something like the average size of a file maintained by this company. Uh, 100MB and, uh, per day. The company creates around 100 files on average. So you basically describe everything that's important to understand what is, uh, what is needed, what is the scope of, um, the, um, organization? And then in your goals, you describe the functional requirements by user stories. So you could have a user story, for example, that says as a user, I want to select multiple files from a local computer at once so that I do not need to upload each file individually and can save time doing larger data transfer. Uh, so, uh, you basically describe, uh, your functional requirements at a higher level of abstraction than, um, you might want to, uh, during the actual development. You want to describe it at a level of abstraction that's, uh, suitable to for everybody who is designing the system to understand what is what is really the scope that is needed. Uh, you can have another user story that says, as a user, I want the system to support presumable uploads. Okay. Now, now we're getting into a really tricky requirement, knowing that we want to resume an upload that makes that makes our design maybe a little bit harder. So we want to not lose progress if our connection drops. This requirement now guides our design into a different direction than it would have otherwise. And then we describe our quality output scenarios in the format that we've learned. Uh, at the end of the first lecture, which is going to have the scenario component, uh, and also the measurement component. So we say, for example, the system shall ensure that the confidentiality and integrity of files while, uh, resisting the most common attacks. Uh, we want to have availability. The upload and download features shall have 99% uptime. So availability is often measured and basically the number of nines. So is it 90%. Is it 99% is a 99.9% 99.99. So you often say 394959. And usually the number of nines. They determine the budget that you need. So an additional nine is usually like one order of magnitude more cost in most cases. And then reliability you want to say in the case of a disk failure failure data should not be lost. And then you describe non goals. You say explicitly the system does not need to be designed for a simultaneous code editing. So we we don't have like a Google Docs situation where multiple people have to edit the same files at the same time, and the upload and download speed does not matter much to the user, so they upload and download in the background. Uh, they don't really care about the speed. Um, so this would be a description of the kind of goals that we would expect you to then describe for your project system. Okay. Any questions so far? I hope this all kind of makes sense, but if it does not, please raise your hand. Okay, good. Then we can describe our design. Okay. So here the team came up with a central rate. So they want a central rate server. And then they describe it of course the sequence diagrams because sequence that comes out amazing. So we have user one was a client and we have a server. And then we have. User two as a client. So our interactions look like this. So the user creates a file with the file name and the path. And then uploads the file bytes and then uploads more bytes. So we we wanted to have reasonable downloads right. So we have to upload them in separate messages. And then once we have uploaded all of the bytes then when the user says um the user, the client device says upload complete. And then the server starts the back out because it's the server has to do some backup. And then the client says, okay, get new files and sends the current files that exists on the, uh, system. And then the server sends the list of all new files. And then the user says, okay, now I want to download file one. And then you get the bits and bytes. And at some point it says download complete. Uh, so this is how you could describe the interactions. Um, then you can describe the overall design. You can say the central server with Raid level two. So there are different kinds of Raid levels. Uh, the higher the Raid level, the more disk space you need, but the more types of failures you're secure against. Uh, and then all communication happens via TCP. So you have different kind of networking protocols. TCP should be used to, uh, correct, uh, to ensure correct delivery of messages. And then very important you need to have a, uh, description of your API. So you want to uh, this is very, very important because whenever you create a design doc, it's often the case that the individual components will be developed by separate teams or by separate developers. And if you don't agree on the API between the different components, they're not gonna combine together. So if you remember from the very first lecture, the Tower Bridge was, uh, created with the different, um, parts of the bridge coming together. You you want to make sure that this is the case for your software as well, because you describe the API interface, uh, before you start implementing. So then you create a description of all of the different actions that can be taken. And the most important aspect when you describe API descriptions is that you also don't just describe the syntax. You don't just say this is called create name with file name and path as an argument, but you want to describe what are the semantics, what is the meaning of calling this method and what, uh, what is the meaning of all of the arguments? So you want to say this creates a new empty file in the given path, and then you describe some error case. If the file already exists, return a file already exists. Error. So this might maybe be counter-intuitive to some users. So you want to document this. You want to say uh, we come up with the design where if the file already exists, we have in file exist error. And then the file is, uh, after it has been created. It is not yet visible to other users. So it describes the side effect. We say after we call the create file, if other users call the get list, uh, or the. Actually, no, I didn't actually have the get list, uh, interface here, but, uh, it's not yet visible to the user. So it's really important for you to describe these kinds of potential questions that other people may have when you describe your design. Then you upload function, uh, we include the file name in the bytes. Okay. This is maybe a bit more intuitive. You just describe how many bytes should be included at maximum. And then the file name is the name. And this one now includes the file extension and the path here the file name did not include the path. It was just uh, the file extension, not the path. Now we actually have to include that. This is important. Right now. We have to make sure that we use the right parameters here and then upload complete. Just includes the file name, mocks the upload, uh, as complete. And now after you've called upload complete, now the file can be downloaded. The other file. The other use this. Now it's visible. And then here we again have the file path s. Part of the file name as well. Okay. As this kind of API description documentation makes sense. So you describe basically what kind of actions do you have. What parameters are there. And then the semantics of the actions and each of the individual parameters. This is how we document our interfaces. And then you describe alternatives considered. So for example, you have considered some push model where the server notifies all clients that a new file has been created. So instead of client saying get me the new files for this model, the server would then notify all of the client, all of the other devices in the system. Now a new file has been created. Do you want to download this? And we did not pick this because it creates much more overhead for starting and ending sessions on the server. Because then to receive this notification you have to of course let the user and the server know that you are online, right? Then whenever your server, your client starts, you have to message the server name online. So we didn't want this. Then we considered a central Non-red server. Well, we didn't consider this because it does not support the reliability requirement. So remember in the goals we said uh, it needs to have a uh reliability of 90 availability of 90% and it should support disk failures. This does not work with a non rate server. And then for the distributed rate server well the availability requirement was just 90%. Well with 90% for these kinds of usage scenarios of 100 megabyte files 100 files per day, a single server is, uh, sufficient for this. So we don't need a distributed server. And then peer to peer file sharing was not selected because it might overload the network. Because when you have too many 20 different locations. So every single time you upload a new file, instead of uploading one file to one server, now you have to upload the file 20 times to all of the different, uh, peers. And we do not want this. This might overload the network. Um, so this is why we did not pick, uh, our peer to peer file sharing. Okay. Questions about this. Three. Do you see the value in having that kind of document going? When you are a new person, you probably want to look at these these designed off. So when you start your new job, I know many of you start your on your new job probably right after this quarter. You probably want to ask, is there a design doc I can look at and now you can know how to read it? Okay, let's look at an example of a real world design document. Unfortunately, we can't look at the Google design docs because they are not, um, open source, but they are some open source repositories with, uh, examples of these design docs. So here we have an example of a design doc from, um, which project was this Kubernetes, uh, version of Kubernetes. It's a very popular, uh, microservice framework, uh, that you might work with when you build microservices. Um, and they use design docs for their, um, systems. They are called RFCs. Request for comments. Uh, and then you have, uh, a motivation where they basically describe their goals. Uh, they just have maybe, um, more abstract goals. They don't have specific, uh, requirements. Specifications describe the non goals and then they describe the user stories. Uh they say this is my user so they don't include the acceptance criteria. Well you should probably include acceptance criteria in your uh design docs that you're creating for this project. Um, they say some things are optional and then they describe the design in this case of some pseudocode and some, uh, API descriptions, um, and then have some, um, more detailed descriptions of, um, yeah, what they've done. And then they describe some of the quality attributes, the scalability. Uh, and then yeah, in this case, for this example, the alternative section would not have gotten a lot of points in this class. They're saying okay, adding a new Kubernetes configuration option. Oh okay. That's what they consider. But of course you should say why you did not select this. So that I understand why this option was not selected. Um, but um, yeah, us or just Amazon in general. They are also famously uh, so their, their whole company philosophy, uh, is write it down before you build it. Um, when you start working in Amazon, um, you will not be allowed to bring any PowerPoint presentations to any meeting whatsoever. No PowerPoint allowed. Um, they only want some kind of writing docs. So there are the famous Amazon six pages that basically describe, uh, different designs. They, uh, very similar to the Google design docs include introductions, goals, tenets, state of business, lessons learned. Uh, so they do this for every single decision, not just the engineering decisions. So Google does it for their engineering decisions. Amazon does these six pages for every single decision that is made in the company, and then there's no meetings at all. If there's no doc, there's no meeting. Their philosophy is basically that if there's no doc, it doesn't get done. So everything that has to get done needs to have doc. Um, so, um. This. This is why, uh, learning these, writing these design docs. Uh, before you start your your job at a phone company, uh, it's really useful. Okay, questions about design docs. Do you feel like now you're ready to write a design doc in your team on your project? Awesome. Perfect. Um, I would recommend you. So the the way how we use the discussions in this course is that every single Friday you meet with your Ta on discussing your progress in your projects. Uh, I would recommend you even, um, next week when the design talk is not going to be due yet. Not sure when we are going to make the design talk to you, but even if the design is not due next week, you probably want to bring a draft of your design doc or what you already have. Maybe your goals, maybe your, uh, your models to get your feedback from your Ta. That's a good way to ensure that when at the time when you submit, your Ta is going to give you all the points. So the more you show your to doing the, uh, discussions, the better the more detailed feedback you can get. And then you can fix all of the issues before your to is grading it. Okay. Now let's talk about a really exciting. Let's take a break. Let's take a five minute break. Yes, sir. I mean, maybe turn us off. Okay, cool. Let's come back to class. Uh. Okay. And now we're going to talk about how you might need to adjust the design process. Depending on which kind of domain you're working in. So, um, the design process we've talked about so far. Try this. Okay, maybe this is working. This sounds like it's probably gonna work for a while. Okay. Nice. Um. Um, yeah. So depending on what kind of, um, domain, you and you might have to change the process of design. And, uh, when we talk about this, you have to consider that the, um, traditional process of software engineering, the waterfall design process, uh, used a lot of big upfront design. So in the 60s, what they did was they did all of the requirements engineering, uh, in the very beginning of an entire system, the all of the requirements engineering, then they did all of the design, and then they did all of the development and all the testing. Okay. I am very sorry. I somehow lost this clip right before this lecture was already running a bit late. Um, so, um, very sorry for this. Um, and then they did all of the testing, and then they did all of the deployment. And, uh, then we've described the new model of, um, okay, why is this a bad idea? Why is it probably going to be a bad idea to always do this in a, uh, 100% sequential? You first do all of the design, then all of the implementation for the entire system. Why might this be a bad idea? Yes. That's right. Yes. Sometimes the requirements change. Uh. Any other? Yes. Just think it was. It takes too long, right? Your. Your customer maybe wants to use a partial system, uh, much earlier in the process, right? They don't want to wait five years to get the first version. Yes, it can be completed. It doesn't. If you go back right, it's much cheaper to fix the bug earlier in the process. So you want to find bugs earlier? Yes. Um. Right? Yeah. Yeah. You run into a lot of issues, and the earlier you detect them, the better. Yeah, requirements might change and they will usually change. In many cases your your user or your customer, they don't even really want then don't know what they need until they actually see it, until they actually experiment with this. Um. We want we want customer feedback much earlier. Maybe we we just misunderstood what our customer needs. Right? Maybe our our customer used terminology that we weren't really familiar with. And then we want to, uh, better understand what your, uh, what the user really needs. And then they are often delayed because, uh, we didn't anticipate that it actually takes much longer. It's much more complicated. So we told the customer this is how long it takes. And then they designed the entire business around this deadline and then, you know, delayed because, you know, software development is often really, really hard. Um. There are reasons for you to use a different design process for different kind of contexts. So there are contexts in which you actually want to use one of these plan driven processes. For example, when you look at, uh, civil engineering, if you build a dog house just in your own backyard for your own dog, you probably want to use a different process from building a skyscraper. How are they different? How do you think these, uh, design process of the engineering process of building a dog house in your backyard and building the Empire State Building is different. Yes. Uh. The risks of planning correctly are very good. That's right. Yes. So the risk for the skyscraper is it could collapse and they could take down literally the entire city. This literally has happened. They they build a skyscraper in Manhattan, uh, with, uh, a new kind of, um, um. That's kind of like ball that is, um, swinging in the wind, uh, system. And then they realize they did not actually calculate the, uh, winds from the corner and that, uh, this would potentially lead in the collapse of the building, uh, if there would be, uh, too much wind. Uh, and then they actually had to refactor the building in concert, uh, after it has been constructed, which is kind of crazy. Uh, they didn't tell anybody about this except for the police. So they they actually had police standing by ready for evacuation. Uh, you know, I want to look this up at YouTube. It's really interesting. Yes. You have another. Yeah. That's actually really interesting. Well, I would I would guess that, uh, to some degree, we've probably understood what the needs of dogs because we've had a lot of dog houses already, but, uh, I would yeah, I would agree that the, uh, the competition process is still quite different. I would actually say this one is more complicated because you might have different. So the the skyscraper might be different because there are there are a lot of different situations that might be like a, like a, uh, region with an earthquake. There might be a region with a lot of, um, different kinds of temperature fluctuations that might influence your. Yeah, uh, situation other than any other way in which they are different. Yes. Some places. So you don't have to worry about construction or. You have to worry about. Exactly, so that the duration of the construction process is much, much longer. This is going to be. Yes, this is going to be hours or days. Uh, this is going to be maybe 1 or 2 people. This is going to be hundreds of people. Yes. I also think that. I think if you're building a doghouse, you can just plan to never meet me in this building. The one later. That's right. I think with a skyscraper, you have to, like, maintain it every day. That's right. Yeah. Yeah. So the, uh, the life span is going to be much longer, and you can just easily replace it. So we have fewer people involved. Many people involve a short construction process, a long construction process, lower risk, higher risk. And this leads us to less upfront design and fewer models for this kind of, uh, structure than for that kind of structure. And that's basically the same in the software engineering, um, world. If we build systems with fewer people, shorter process, lower risk, we might want less upfront design. Then if we build systems that, um, require, uh, more people have much higher risk. So if you have high risk domains, if you build medical devices, if you build self-driving cars, if you build planes, if you build, um, satellites, then you might want to use a much, much higher upfront design process. You want to investigate? Uh, there's a lot of effort into design. You want to make all of the important design decisions early, so that you make sure that the system you're building is actually functional, and you create very detailed design documents, very rigorous design evaluation. So you see a lot of formal analysis, um, that is happening in this space. But then if you're working on an online shop, social media apps, games, just some entertainment systems, they often have much smaller upfront design. Uh, focus on you want to focus more on just the highest risks and then design while coding. So, uh, this is again, there's no a one size fits all solution. So depending on what kind of job you will get, you will follow a very, very different kind of design process. I think in every single software engineering domain you always have to do some design. But if you're working and in one of these domains, you have to put much, much more of your time into these processes. So when we look at, for example, web based social media apps, there's this, uh, famous quote from Mark Zuckerberg, uh, go fast and break things, right? We want to deploy features as quickly as possible, and maybe we break something, but we have some tests. So the risks we have are mostly around usability. But if our users don't like the UI, uh, then they're not going to use our system. So we need to have easily changeable UI so that we can adjust the user needs for change. Ability is important. Scalability is incredibly important. If we start with a thousand users. Of course, at some point we want to have a billion users. So we need to design our system so that once we have a billion users, we can serve a billion users. The amount of upfront design is kind of small to medium. So, uh, you focus more on um. You focus more on the most important technology choices. Um. In general, web is often very well understood. So you can often reuse some frameworks. So you pick one of the existing frameworks probably. And then, uh, you design very important. You spend most of your time on the client server interface from a design perspective and your components structuring your data models. This is where you spend most of your design in these domains. And then the process you're using is agile. So in an agile process we have iterative development. We have um, people uh, building individual increments in um, uh, in multiple iterations. So we have an iterative process. We sometimes call this perpetual development. There's not going to be a final product. And we don't really say, okay, now this is the last version of Facebook that's not going to be a new version. Um, we have a lot of releases. We we do our quality assurance mostly via testing. That's not going to be any kind of formal analysis. Uh, we don't really do a lot of design review. Um, rapid development helps us figure out what issues we have in our UI, because that's our main risk. We focus much more of our design activity on the high risk elements at Google. The design process looks a little bit different. So at Google they actually, um, run much more towards that more design than in Facebook. So if you go to Facebook, you spend much more, much less time working on design docs at Google. And yes, you spend much more time on design. So these are self organized, autonomous teams. Uh, there's usually the team lead is approving the design decisions. That is inform our design docs. The way how this works is basically that you ideally teams craft these design docs together. And then you see a lot of comments and the they actually use Google Docs for this, right. So they write their design docs and Google Docs and then they have long, long discussions on, uh, in the common threads. Uh, and we call this process risk driven design. So risk driven design means that we focus on the design. Um, that has the highest amount of risk. And then some teams have weekly design meetings because each of the teams can select their own design processes and their own systems. Each team can decide how much design they do and some of the teams that work more on the, let's say, Google file system. They need to do much, much more design. The teams that are, um. Uh, about the availability of, uh, um, of Google Cloud, uh, they have to do much more design then the teams that are maybe on a, on an Android feature, for example. If you built spacecraft systems. That's this quote from the NASA flight director. Uh, failure is not an option. Uh, your system looks completely different. So at NASA, uh. They have risks of robustness, of testability. You want to make sure that your system works in completely unknown situations. So NASA builds software that is supposed to operate in an environment where nobody has ever been before. Um, I think recently NASA launched their Europa Clipper mission, where they send a spacecraft to circle around the moons of Europa, which is one of the, uh, Jupiter moons, uh, to detect potential life around, uh, below the icy surface. Uh, these are situations where you just can't really test the systems. Um, so you want to make sure that you design your systems in a way that you can somehow still test them on Earth. And then the amount of upfront design is a lot. They write incredibly detailed design. Uh, they have a lot of models. They have formal models as well. They have a lot of mission critical, uh, elements of analysis incredibly rigorously. They have a very plan driven process. So one of my friends, um, did an internship at, um, NASA a few years ago, and then he was like, I learned in my software engineering class that we should follow an agile software development process. At NASA, they don't do this. They don't do agile. Did they not pay attention in their software engineering class or what? Well, what's the answer? Why do they not do agile? Why do they not incrementally deliver new features? Any ideas? Yeah. That's right. Most of the missions are actually literally, uh, designed around the, uh, constellations of different planets. If you want to launch a mission to Mars, you have a two month window every two years where you can launch this. Uh, so you don't launch one mission every week and then deliver a new feature. You're not doing it. You don't benefit from that. Um, so, uh, yeah, they have a very plan driven process because they don't really benefit from any of the iterate of process. Um, and, uh, yeah. Do you have a lot of, uh, hierarchical decision making? Uh, project managers, uh, develop, record and maintain all of the software design documents. You have incredibly detailed design docs, and then you have a lot of different reviews. Just start with a high level system design review. After this has happened, then you do a preliminary design review. Then you do a critical design review. Then you do a system integration review, a test readiness review. And then at some point, once you have developed a system, you do a system design review. And let's look at some of the checklists. They have their checklists publish. It's actually kind of crazy when you look at this. The first one is has the design been developed at low enough level for coding. The design docs they write has to be at a level of coding before they actually write code. They create design looks at at the same level of code to be able to formally verify that their system is correct. And then you have this very formal checklist process that you don't really see in other domains. So this should show you that, um, whenever you are in the real world, you have to pick the right design process for the right, uh, context in which you're working. And, um, depending on what are the most important risks you are dealing with, you have to work on different kinds of systems. Okay. Now let's do this in a think fashion. What do you think? How does the, uh, design process look like for, uh, software startups with the, uh, quote, fake it till you make it. What are the risks? What are what is the amount of upfront design and process changes for young startups? Assume you want to start your own startup. What are the risks? What is the amount of upfront design and how do you need to change your process to get this done? Talk to your neighbor. You. It's just the reason why we're like that is that the main needs right now is also here's. Oh, that's a pretty useful thing. Okay. Yes. Uh, so the risks are basically the most important requirements are the risks. Uh, uh, the risks. Uh, if you do not get those right, then, um, um, the the project is going to fail. That's kind of the definition of risk. And that in that specific context. Okay, that seems to be working really well. Thank you very much. So let me remove big tech from this one. Okay.