[Auto-generated transcript. Edits may have been applied for clarity.] I know. She think? Okay. If there is anybody here and this class who needs it for graduation this quarter and is not enrolled yet, please let me know. Okay. Does this work? I need to go. Yeah. Uh, okay. This is working. Very good. Let's do this. And then. Let's do that. How's, uh, team formation going? This, uh, everybody start to have an idea of who they want to be in a team with. Okay. If anybody has not reached out to a potential team yet, you definitely want to do this, like, today, uh, you know, like, talk, uh, talk to other students in the class and find team members so that all of this will go as smoothly as possible. Um, we want you to have a team and an idea of what your project should be by the end of, uh, but basically by before Friday discussion. So the beginning of the discussion, you should have, uh, a team. Okay. Cool questions about this. Good. Then let's talk about modeling. So last week we've talked about, uh, use case uh, diagrams and state machines. And today we are going to cover class diagrams. We are going to cover sequence diagrams. We also cover a little bit of entity relationship diagrams that are not really part of UML, but that I think are still important to know. And uh, we also cover some, um, a component diagrams. Oops. This does not work. Oh, I forgot to start recording. Okay. Cool. Before we talk about, uh, class diagrams in the notation, let's talk about, uh, what class diagrams are actually modeling. So when we consider an implementation of a system, we usually, um. When the differentiate what is the interface of a class from its implementation? So the interface interface is the means by which this class is accessed by other classes. So this is function names arguments return types. This is basically the API of the class. The implementation is the means by which you can accomplish the contract that you've signed. By saying that this method has these arguments in this this this function. So the interface is what you want other people to know about your class. And the implementation is where you want to hide from other, uh, developers, um, so that they, uh, do not make assumptions that might change at some point. We'll talk about this in much more detail. We are going to talk about the information hiding principle. But the great thing about, um, our class diagrams is that they specifically show you just the interface of a class. So you're just showing developers what they should care about without showing them what they should not care about. This is still not work. We also need to differentiate the difference between subclassing and subtyping. When we talk about subclassing, this is what you do in C plus. Plus with extends. Uh, no. No, it's in Java with extends and C plus plus to do it with the colon. Um, this is inheriting some behavior from another class. This is subclassing. Subtyping is the same type of operation, but only on the interface. So, sup, this is getting annoying. Let's see if I can somehow reset this. Okay. This looks good. Okay. Subtyping means that you only inherit parts of the interface of a class without inheriting its actual behavior. Um, so in, uh, in Java, which is the programing language that we're going to use for the majority of this class, uh, Java is still one of the most used programing languages in the world. Um, you do this via interfaces. So you define an interface B, and then you say class A implements B. Uh, so this a specific interface keyword, um, in programing languages like Python because there are no, there's no, you know, static typing. There are no interfaces in C plus. Plus there's no specific keyword for an interface. Um, in C plus plus you can simulate what an interface is by creating a class that has only abstract methods. It doesn't have any implementations. All of their methods are abstract. That would be an interface in C plus plus. Java is a great language because it separates the interface from the implementation. So you have a specific keyword for this. Um, in class diagrams, we model static relationships between all components in the system. Uh, so this allows us to say these are the interfaces of all of the classes in our system. And this is how they related with each other. So we describe classes in an object oriented sense of the class. Diagrams were originally designed to be much more broadly useful than just actual object oriented programing. So you can use class diagrams also to describe real world relationships and real world classes. So if you are building a system that has customers and records, uh, you can also model the domain of your system with class diagrams. But we usually in this class we usually see them as, um, modeling software systems because software engineers. Um, yeah. So a single UML diagram can have multiple different classes that are part of this, uh, this diagram. And we try to represent concepts of the system rather than the implementation because, um, the implementation is supposed to change at some point. The interface should remain as fixed as possible. So we want to describe the interface of the system in class diagrams. Usually uh refer to um entities with the nouns because uh, I'm not sure. Has this been taught at some in some class that you wouldn't name your classes as nouns rather than verbs? So naming your your class, uh, let's say transaction instead of transact. Uh, okay. Got see some nodding. Okay. This is not new for you. That's good. Um, so, uh, yeah, if we have a class we basically represented as a rectangle. So any rectangle in the UML diagram like this is usually a class. And this is the name of the class. And we can also denote how many instances of this class exists as a design pattern that we'll, uh, probably cover, maybe in a bit less detail this quarter than in the previous quarters. Uh, uh, that allows you to say this only a single instance of the class. Uh, you can do this by putting a one in there. Um, yeah. So you can put the multiplicity of how many instances might exist of this class in the top right corner. In general, a class will follow this pattern. So the top segment is always a name of the class. And then the optional second segment is going to be attributes. So this is where you list all of the member variables that exist. Um and then the bottom section is methods where you list all of the functions that are defined on this class. Uh, all of these bottom uh, segments are optional, but they have to follow this order. So you always have the attributes above the methods. You don't swap them. Um, and then um. Yeah. You see the visibility here? So if a visibility is minus, this means it's private. We have this in there. No, we don't have this here. Okay. Uh, if it's minus, this means it's private. Uh, this means only this same class can access this. If it's. Plus, it's public. Who wants to guess what uh, the hashtag might stand for? So plus is public. Minus is private. What might the hashtag be? Who remembers? 31. Yes. Protected. That's right. What does protected do? Uh. So protected means that classes that inherit from it can also access it. So only the same class and its subclasses can access this in Java. And therefore also in UML, we have another uh, visibility marker. That's the tilde that stands for the package visibility. So in Java you can also say that a uh, method or an attribute or a class is only visible inside of the, um, the package which is the tilde. Okay. Um, yeah. So classes can have attributes that, uh, represent their, uh, relationships. Um, you can have dependencies, you can have associations, aggregations, composition, realization, and generalization. These are the six types of dependencies or relationships that you can't have between classes in a UML diagram. And some of them will be corresponding very directly to the programing language constructs that exist in your programing language. And others will be more conceptual, which means that they add additional semantics. They they allow you to express the intent of what your design is, not just purely the implementation. For example, a dependency means they class A uses class B. This is represented with this dashed line. So we have um remember this from um the use case diagrams. So this exists in a lot of different diagrams. In class diagrams it means that this um class uses this other class, which means that it cannot function correctly without the other class being there. This usually means that it's included in compilation or, uh, it's loaded at runtime. Right. So if you have a, uh, a client, uh, a Python class and it's not compiled that it's interpreted, um, in Java, this would kind of look like this. So in Java you define the class. And then uh, when you use a, um, another class in, let's say, an argument, this means it's a temporary relationship. So this train class and the button pressed event class, they only temporarily interact with each other in the add stop, uh, method. But we cannot compile train without this class being there. So this is what this dependency means. Associations are stronger relationships. This usually means that we have a reference to the other class. Which can mean that we have like an instance member that is pointing to this. Um. Uh, it's a more, uh, structural, a stronger relation to that. It usually means that it exists over the entire lifecycle of that class. Uh, so, for example, if we have a station and a train and they both have a reference to the button, we denote this like this. Um, it's a stronger relationship. So the, the station always knows the button. The train always knows the button. Um, and we can denote the multiplicities here. This basically means that one station always has a reference to one button and one button, as referenced by one station. A train has two buttons, and a button is only, uh, in this association with one train. Uh, if you want to have more, then if you want to have an arbitrary number, let's say zero to n, we denote this with star. Um, yeah. You can also explicitly name your associations. You can give them names. You can say, uh, if this train has two buttons, one of them is a button, the other one is B button. You can add these these names on the, uh, associations. And they can be basically just the names of, let's say the referent, the member variables. But they can also be verbs. If the association is more, more behavioral then, um, the purely structural. And we can also make them conditional. And so we can add these additional constraints and UML. You add constraints with a dashed line and then curly braces. This is how you add constraints on a relationship. So here you are basically saying that this station does not actually have two buttons. It has either a button or it has B button. So this means it has exactly one button, but it's either a button on the B button. And then, um, class properties when we have multiple, uh, we can have, uh, ordered lists, we can have unique lists, and we have, uh, the collection types representing this mix of two. So we can have a bag that's unordered and where, um, uh, there can be multiple elements inside of, uh, the bag multiple times. We can have an ordered list. We can have an or an ordered set. So in order to set, uh, is ordered, but only, uh, an element can be there once, uh, if it's unordered and unique, then it's a set. And if it's ordered and non-unique, then it's a sequence. So we can have these additional, uh, collection types that we can add to our relationships as well. Aggregation. And this, this is something that I always have students ask and officers, what's the difference between association and aggregation. How does this look different in the code? So, uh, and now aggregation is a stronger relationship than an association. So an association says I have a reference to this object. I have a, uh, I have a permanent relationship with this object, an aggregation. So there is a hierarchical relationship between us. So one is the whole, the other one is the part. Um, so, uh, it's a long term relationship that is, uh, um, that is hierarchical. So in this case, the station owns the button. The train owns two buttons. This does not mean that, um, the button does not exist without the station or train. This basically just means we have a hierarchical relationship between the two. So, um, if we want to denote this and we want to say, um, one object is kind of managing the other object, then we can, uh, do this with this hierarchical relationship. And then we can make this even stronger by using composition. Composition means class A is made up of class B, um. For example, a person is made up of a head, so a head does not really exist without the person. Uh, a house, uh, is made up of rooms. Rooms don't really exist without a house like you can think of. Just a pure room without a house that is part of. Um, so the semantics of composition is basically when the whole is destructed, then the part is also destructed. So if we destroy the house, then all of the rooms are also destructed. So if you think of this as C plus plus then in your destructor call, you also always have to call the destructor of your your objects. While in aggregation. That's not really the case. An aggregation. We just say this Iraqi's relationship. Um, let's brainstorm some other examples of uh, aggregations that are pure and compositions. Who wants to give me an example? Talk to your neighbor. You have a question on the answer. Question. So the social association has had one. Mhm. The other one is one like. Do I have some sort of code to demonstrate the difference? Like, why are these two different in my life? Great question. Okay, so the question was what is the difference between an association has a and an aggregation only? Um, as let me first talk about the difference of aggregation and composition. And then we do this. Okay. Who wants to propose an instance of aggregation that is not composition or, uh, composition? That is the stronger form. Okay wants to share their thoughts. Thing I like. This classroom has chairs. That's a classroom. That's great. A great and a great example. So this classroom has chairs, but we can still, you know, this. The chair still exists without the classroom, but they are part of this classroom. Um, so, uh, if you think of the, the chair, then it is a part of this classroom. Uh huh. So give me an example of composition. Okay. Nobody. Yes. So say mine and then consciousness or like the brain and in consciousness. Sure. Don't have a brain to have consciousness. That's right. That's very philosophical, but yes. True answer. Any other example? Maybe something from like a real world example? Yes. I have to tell you that the fuel inside airplane and fuel. I would say airplane and fuel is more of an aggregation than composition. Um, so the fuel, um, also exists outside of the airplane, right? We we have it in, let's say, trucks. Uh, we have it in, uh, let's say fuel station. Right. So if the fuel still exists. So it is, uh, it is a whole part relationship. So the the within the relationship between the plane and the fuel, uh, the fuel is a part of the plane. Uh, but the fuel also exists outside of the plane. Um, yes. Doesn't really exist outside of the. The can and the what can of Red bull? Oh, a can of Red bull. Because the drink doesn't really exist outside of like form fact. I would I would assume that some people like to put the the Red bull into a glass, so they take it outside of the can and then they pour it into a glass. I would still say this is aggregation. Yes. What about like a. Yes, I like you. You know, if you get rid of all the courses, there's. That's right. But if you get rid of the transcript, there's the quiz. Still exist. So it has to be both ways. Yes. Yes. Less than. People can still donate blood. Uh, yes. A pair of jeans and jeans. Jean. Yes, I would say Jean pockets. That's a good example. Yes. So your jean pocket doesn't really exist without the jeans. Uh oh. So at first thinking, you were talking about some molecular biology, like the DNA genes, but yes. The genes. Yes. Um, they're glasses in the lenses that they have a pair of glasses and the lenses that they have. I would probably agree, uh, because it's really hard to extract the class. I think sometimes that people do this, they take their old glasses into, like, smaller, like smaller lenses and put them into smaller classes. But I would say the intent of the, uh, or the attrition is to create one, which that's not the case. Um, okay. But back to the question of what's the difference between association and aggregation? Um, so in pure association, uh, we don't have a whole party relationship. Let's say, um, if a person has friends, then there's no whole relationship. So I don't own my friends. Uh, my friends also don't own me. But we are still in a hopefully lifelong relationship with each other. I guess maybe it's just maybe a better example. Uh, but, um. Um. Yeah. So we have an association with each other. That is nonhierarchical. Um, we, we know the other person we have. Let's say we have that phone number in our, um, um, I guess phone number and, uh, an address book. That would be a whole party relationship because the address book consists of phone numbers, but, uh, we have a reference to the other person. Uh, so this is why it's a pure association and not an aggregation. Um, another example of a, uh, composition, um, would be, for example, uh, um, let's say. Okay. Another example of aggregation would be let's say a department and professor. So multiple professors can be the department. But uh, departments, uh, professors can still exist outside of the department. What's another example I was thinking of with composition, uh, with pure, uh, with with actual composition, uh, when you have, let's say, a car and an engine. Right. You don't really want to just have a. Yes. You have another example. A mobile app and a mobile device. A mobile app and a mobile device. Uh, I think the the main question there is, uh, what do you consider to be the app? Is the app the instance of the app that is installed on the machine? Or is the app just the software that can be deployed? Um, if you think of it as the instance, then yes, you're right. If it's on the the instance, yes you're right. Um, okay. So an association, we have a, uh, long term structural relationship between objects that are not necessarily hierarchical. If we have aggregation, then we have a hierarchical relationship. And if we have composition, then we, um, the child basically does not exist without the parent. Um, and they are also instances of each other. So composition is still aggregation. So it inherits all of the properties of aggregation. Aggregation is associations and inherits all of the properties of association, which is I usually say uh, pure aggregation or pure association when I mean just the other ones. Yes. So in a file system, when you have files in a folder, you can move files independently, right. But if you. Don't the files also get disputes as that? Yeah, I would say this is this is a good example of a computer science, uh, example of composition. I really like this example because, uh, it does show. It's going to give you a true for this, not a normal candy. Uh, because this is a really good example, uh, because you can still move it around. Right? You can still move the file in the folder, but if you delete the folder, then the file doesn't exist anymore. I like this example. Okay. Then we have. Okay. Any questions about association aggregation composition and dependency? That's something that students often struggle with. So if you have questions about this. Piazza office hours. Um, but it seems like nobody has questions about this right now. Okay. Generalization is a is a relationship. And this is probably the one that you're most Amelio with because you have implemented inheritance. Um, many, many times I would probably guess maybe hundreds of times I would hope. Uh, so in Java, this is the extends keyword, uh, that I think is also the case in Python. Like this. Uh, and then in C plus or. No. Is it. Anyways. Um, and then we have interface realization. So interface realization is when you have a class that is implementing an interface. So it is um, conforming through the interface, um, without inheriting any actual behavior. And we denote this with a dashed line, uh, and an open triangle if not talked about uh, the uh notation. So in aggregation we add this diamond shape that is hollow. And then if it's filled, this is composition. Um, and it's on the, it's on the end of the whole. So the train owns the button, not the button on the train. This is why the, uh, the diamond is on the train. And in generalization the arrow is pointing to the superclass and it's a hollow triangle. Um, we have seen this one with with use cases already. Uh, and then with interface realization, we have a dashed line. So the dashed line only exists between a class and an interface. This is realizing an interface. We can also have inheritance between interfaces. That would still be the solid line. Uh, so if an interface is an instance of another interface, um, and then we would have the, uh, solid line, but between an interface and a class, we only have interface realization. So whenever you draw diagrams that have, um, an interface and then a class inheriting from this, you always have to use interface realization. And whenever you have two classes inheriting from each other, you always have to have generalization. Um, that's just the rules. But it's really important for you to see the difference. Right. So this means that you only receive, uh, the structural interface from the inheritance. Uh, while in generalization, you get some behavior as well. Um, and for good design, you want to avoid real generalization whenever possible. You want to have interface realization more often. Then you want to have, uh, inheriting behavior from other classes. Uh, that's generally a much more flexible design. Okay. Um. Yeah. So we've talked about this already a little bit. So we have different visibility. We have plus for public of minus for private. We have um hashtag for protected always protected. Again who remembers what protected was. Yes. That's right. Exactly. Um. Um, and yeah, then until this package, we can also denote for parameter lists, uh, whether this is a parameter that goes into the function or a parameter that goes out of the function. So if you remember in C uh you can define uh return values, just US parameter references that are supposed to be a return value. Uh, so if you have a programing language that does this, then you can use the out, uh, in front of the parameter name to denote that this is not a parameter that goes into the function, but it's a it's a return value. Um, you have the name and the parameter list, right. This this is basically just what you're used to from C plus plus as well. So the, the name and then the type. Um yeah. You can also denote multiplicity okay. So you could say that there are multiple of these um but uh for example you can have these lists. Um, yeah. So in the code this is how, uh, this looks like in the code. So you basically just define that this class has this method, um, and it's public here. You are saying this is a public method that has the return type boolean. So the return type is uh, after the colon. And then you have this parameter list, uh, which uh, here in Java basically means you have the return type first and then you have the name, uh, second. So this is the type, uh, a byte array or a long. Um, yeah. You can leave out the void so the, uh, you can leave this out. But yeah, sometimes it's helpful to specifically say that this, uh, method does not return anything. You can also add additional constraints with our note notation. So we can, for example, say that this um. Um method body has these conditions. So we always want to guarantee that the width of the rectangle uh uh is greater than zero and the height is also greater than zero. Uh, so we can define a precondition, a post condition, and the body conditions of the body condition, uh, invariant preconditions, uh, assumed to be true by the method. So you're basically saying this method assumes that, uh, uh, the class is in this state, or that this parameter is within this range. Uh, you can have any kind of condition here that you want to, uh, document. Uh, this can often be really useful when you create a it's the API specification. Um, and then you want to share this with, uh, other developers, or you want to, uh, implement your own MCP server and you want to describe the pre and post conditions of your operations, um, to, you know, the agents that are going to use the MCP. Uh, so thinking about the pre and post conditions of your operations, uh, can be really, really helpful. And I think the more we move into like a genetic software, uh, the more developers need to think about what a good pre and post conditions for these operations because, um, if you include this and let's say your, your MCP documentation, then the other agents might not necessarily know what the preconditions are unless you tell them. Um, so yeah, thinking of pre and post conditions and invariance I think will be really useful. And uh, if you email you can express them with these notes. Then we can also have template classes just like in C plus plus. We can define types that will then be parameterized. You can have a an array list that is agnostic for the type. But then when you instantiated with a specific type, if you bind, uh, the fruit, uh, if you want to create a few fruit list, that is an array list, uh, that binds the array element to fruit. Uh, then you can express this with the bind notation. Um, the parameter type is here a it's like a rectangle in the corner, uh, that has uh, has dashed, um, dashed lines. So you're saying element type is the name of this generic type. And then you can use this here. So you can say this is an array list of a specific element type. And then uh, you can use this uh in here. And then the way how this would look like in Java is that you have your fruitless class that extends, uh, array list of fruit. Um, this is maybe an example. Well, the visual diagram is something a little bit more complex than the actual code. But um, yeah, that in many cases the the visual diagrams are simpler than the code. In this case, it's maybe not the case. Um, yeah. But yeah, you you will see this quite often in framework code where you have some frameworks that, uh, are designed in a very general way. Um, yeah. So we talked about this. Let's also talk a little bit about inevitability. So you've seen we've drawn the associations with arrows pointing in one direction. Um, this is the main, uh, notation that you use for associations. Um, but you can also describe an association that goes both ways. Or you could even describe annotate and an association that explicitly does not go one way. So now the ability means that, uh, the um, object being pointed to, uh, is a reference that is stored in the object pointing. So here the shape has a reference to color. Uh, and we can name this as an attribute here. Um, and if we want to say that color does not actually have a reference to the shape, then we would have a cross on the left. So we could, we could add a cross next to this aggregation and thereby say that the color does not store a reference. If we do not have any of these, then we don't say anything about it. But we don't make a claim that there is a reference, that we don't make a claim that there is no reference. Okay. Yeah. Some some other examples of this, for example, would be a, uh, employee and the boss. So an employer usually has a reference to their boss and know who is their boss. And the boss usually has a reference to all of their employees. So this would be a a double never competitor Navy couple relationship. Um, when you vote for a politician, then your vote store is the name of the politician. But the politician might may not necessarily have a reference to all of the votes. Right? We don't really know. That really depends on how you implement the system. So this is why we don't make a claim here. Uh, if you want to say that the vote specifically does not store the identity of the voter, then we can make a cross here. So this is basically saying that the vote does not store a reference to the person who voted, but we don't necessarily know whether the voter remembers who they voted for. Right? So maybe the the voter has remembered the vote or they have not remember the vote. We don't know. We do not make a claim. So, uh, this is why we don't have a cross and also not an error on this side. An example of a dual non navigable association would be a code and clear text password. So you never want to store your clear text password. And of course the clear text password should not store a reference to the account. But they are still in a relationship with each other, right? They are in a in a long term relationship where, uh, the account always is inherently linked to the clear text password, but not an inevitable way. This is make sense? Questions about this. So as always and you email, you don't have to specify the network ability. But I think in many cases it's really good for you to think about should these relationships be navigable in one way? Should they be navigable in both ways, or should they maybe be navigable? In no way. Um, and, you know, some other examples of, uh, association, uh, aggregations and conversation. So, uh, a car has a wheel, uh, a library has a book. So the car is made up of wheels, the library is made out of books, but they still exist outside each other. So the the person has, uh, exists only like the head only exists with the person. Uh, and the room only exists in the car. Okay, let's look at this class. Can you draw or describe a UML class diagram for this code? Talk to your neighbor. Oh my goodness. They like. I guess. Oops. Okay. Who is hungry? I want to earn some candy. Well, who has the answer and does not really care about the candy? Yes I like. Yes. Uh, okay. So we have another kind of relationship between two classes. What are they called? Student and roster. Okay. And do we know anything about either of these classes besides the inevitable relationship? No, let's say we do know something. So we know that the, uh, student has a public method, uh, stall, stall roster, and we know that it stores, uh, the rest of the package is the default. Uh, and then, yes, we have the navigable relationship to the roster about the roster. We don't know anything. We don't know the signature. Uh, at least not from this class of from this code. So, yeah, we basically have, uh, in this case, we have almost the 1 to 1 mapping between the code and the, uh, and the diagram. There is something that the, uh, diagram does not show. We just, you know, this assignment, this is not shown in the time you wanted to say this. Oh, this because this is a package visibility. So this say this is the default in in Java. Uh, so you cannot use Java before. Don't be confused by this. This is just like a Java thing. Um, so a package visibility means so in in Java you can define packages inside of your application. And then uh, the default visibility is that, uh, methods and classes, they are usually visible um, only in the package scope. Um. Okay. Yes. Mm. The aggregation would have. Not the aggregation. Um. That's interesting. Um. We can we can add additional semantics to this. We can say a roster consists of students, uh, so we can say, uh, that the aggregation, uh, exists from roster to student. So then, um, the diagram would potentially look like. Student and we have our code here. And then we have. Oops. I cannot draw a diamond. You could have this here. Uh, yeah. We could. This, you know, in an exam. We would certainly contest as a correct answer as well. Um, I think either answer makes sense. So here you are basically saying that a roster can't really write very clearly. Sorry for this. Uh, but, yeah, we basically have a diamond on the roster, and, uh. Yeah, I think that would also be a potentially correct answer. Okay. Questions? Yes. But in this case, is involved here is possible. So if we call the destructor, all student roster would be destroyed. So I don't think there's a lifetime like us versus. So it is a, uh. So in the real world, there is a whole different relationship between roster and student. Uh, so in the real world, whenever you have a class, like the roster, uh, consists of students. Um, this is adding our, you know, human intelligence, uh, to the syntax that we see in the diagram. So this is the diagram that is purely describing the syntax, what we see in the code. Uh, if we now also realize that, you know, in the real world roster, there is uh, consist of students, then we can add this, uh, back in. But uh, in the aggregation example, we don't, uh, we don't care about whether, uh, what happens when one of them get destroyed. Um, that is not necessarily part of the definition of aggregation. That would be composition. Okay. Let's look at this example. This one's a bit trickier. Now we have a method that throws an exception. Okay. Talk to your neighbor. I should. Uh. Goes through two. Do you mean that we should approach life? Um. Um. Rosen is. That's actually a really good question. I recognize the word roaster away. Yeah, it's kind of like clockwork, right? That's right. Okay, so the question is, let's, uh, I assume this was about like a homework or exam environment, uh, where we want to get if we give you this kind of code and then we let you draw the diagram. Uh, what should you do? Should you focus more on the syntax of what is shown in the, uh, in the example, uh, like this one? Uh, or should you focus more on the semantics? Um, so in an exam, uh, I would, uh, focus more on the syntax first. Uh, if you then feel like there is some semantics that you want to add back in, that is very obvious. And you should also do this, uh, if, um, let's say it's a little bit more ambitious. So in this example, I would say like both answers would be it would be more correct. I would not mark a composition as correct, but I would, I would mark, uh, association and aggregation as correct because, you know, uh, when the roster gets destroyed, the student doesn't get killed. Right. Like that. That absolutely does not happen. Uh, when this is. That's right. Yeah. This. This is why I would just be a pure application and no competition in any way. But what isn't lost or like. Uh uh. Okay, so in this code, we store a reference to the roster. Uh, so in Java, these, uh, pointers, they are not like the the store. That's right. That's right. Yeah. In Java, we don't have the the store. The pointer is, uh, it's kind of by default. Um. Yeah. In C plus. Plus you would be correct. In C plus plus C would be correct. This would be in C plus plus. Um it. Huh. Yeah. Yeah. Right. I mean it's supposed to be pass by pass by value, not pass by reference, but um, yeah. You want you want to focus on the syntax first, but you also still want to try to identify any obvious semantic relationships. Um, yeah. So that's kind of the answer. Okay. What is, uh, the diagram for uh, uh, for this example. Who wants to suggest something? Maybe someone from home has not gotten candy today. I think this part of the room has not gotten a lot of candy yet. Anybody wants to bring some candy? Yes. So? Uh. Mhm. That's right. Yes. So yeah we have the checks on validator class with two public functions. And then we have a dependency to invalid checksum exception. Why is it a dependency and not an association. Well why is it a dependency and not. And nothing. Yes. Anyway. Hmm? That's right. It's very temporary relationship. So the exceptions only, like, thrown here and caught here, but it's not stored anywhere. Uh, and, yeah, the checksum does not compile without the, uh, invalid checksum exception being, uh, referenced. So, uh, yeah. So it has to be a dependency because it's, uh, it doesn't compile without it, but it's not an association because it's only a temporary dependency. Okay. Questions about this. Cool. I have another example. We have one more example. Okay. Let's look at this one. Well, two more examples. Actually. Two more examples. Okay. This is using a Java syntax, the private class, which is defining a class inside the parent class that is not accessible outside of, uh, other classes. So the only class that knows about the ID class is the motherboard class. No other class has any access to this class. I think this should help you in your conversation. Okay. Talk to your neighbor. Why should I answer this question? So I'll. That means that at least one of the classes has a reference to the other, right? Okay. Uh, does association mean that at least one of the classes has a reference to the other? Can somebody else answer this question? It's a good question. Does the association mean that at least one class has a reference to another class? It's like there's a correct answer. Yeah. What do you think? It's like not inevitable associations, but the. Yes, that's the definition of the composition. So like. Cause I had cause to eat because I. Uh, has a, uh. So the the most common association you will see will be association that is navigable in at least one way. Um, so these kinds of associations, you can detect them with references. Um, there is also another kind of association that you see less in the code. Uh, that's an association that you see more in the design intent or in, um, uh, or in a description of the real world objects. Um, the, the precise definition of an association is that it's a structural long term relationship. So the dependency is a short term relationship. Uh, the association is a long term relationship. So whenever the association is long term, but nobody has the reference to each other. We still consider it to be an association and unnavigable uh, association. Um, uh, but whenever you look at code, then seeing a reference is your, is your, uh, what we call a beacons. Uh, it's showing you this is a association. Okay. This was a great question. I'm gonna give you a candy for this question. Okay. Who wants to suggest a diagram for the motherboard? Okay, I see hesitation. Somebody has to be brave and suggest something, whether it's correct or not. You look at the Kennedy. Okay. Somebody here? No. No. Okay. Oh, we'll have to wait. Yes. Possible for us to, um, journal like of our primary ideas. And it has like, um, it's the first time it points to a divorce body versus like a part of mother versus. What kind of dependance? What kind of relationship is between them? Is it dependency? Association? Aggregation of composition. Its composition? Why? Because you define that. That's right. So no, no other class even knows about the ID bus. So this means it can only exist inside this class. This means the id us class doesn't even exist outside of the motherboard. So whenever you see something like a private person in a class, this is your your beacon. That this is definitely composition. Not all compositions are shown in the code like this, but whenever you see an inner class, you know for sure that it's going to be composition because nobody else knows about this class. Actually, I think, I think that it's worth a, um. How you. Okay. Last example. Now we have a list. We have a division with employees. What does this look like? Talk to your neighbor. Okay. You have a question? There's like a public. In that case, I would say it depends. It depends. Usually it's you have an inner class. Uh, they often is a sign that it probably is either aggregation or composition, but it kind of depends. Then it really depends on the semantics and the actual implementation of the behavior. Then you want to look at, uh, does the object destroy its children, its child or not? Uh, I would think that in most cases it will be the case, but I don't think it will be like 100%. Um, yeah. Okay. Okay. I talked to a neighbor about this one. Okay. Any suggestions or any possible ideas? Any thoughts you want to share? If you don't want to give us the full solution, that's fine. This one has a lot of detail to it. Yeah. Is this like an extension of your list? Uh, this is a generic type. So here we are basically saying the, uh, the type of the attribute is that it's a list of type employee. So this is um, instantiating the generic type. So we say the list elements are all employees. Okay. So this is kind of like an area. This is like uh like employee and then square brackets but it lists data type instead of an array. Employee is a class uh, kind of. It's done. So, um. You could think of list in uh, in brackets being uh, extending list clause by binding the generic type to and. You can think of it like this way. Yeah. Um. Okay. Um. Wants to suggest something. Yes. I think it. Interesting. So you say it has an aggregation with employees, but it wait, oh, the employees. But it has an association to division. What is the what is the reasoning behind making a difference. Like it has an association to the. Oh, okay. So. Oh. Huh? Um, also, we have to think about the multiplicities as well. So we, we see here explicitly that the division has exactly ten employees. Um, and then, um, the division attribute, uh, then has a, uh, uh, a list. So this could be multiple. Well, one. So we have private, um, attributes. So they are private here. Uh, and yeah, so they are aggregation because in this case, this is, uh. In this case, this is more semantics. So this is we know that a division consists of, uh, and multiple employees. And the uh division Zero's division can then consist of of multiple employees. So this this is this is an example of where you actually need to use your semantic understanding rather than just purely thinking about the syntax. Okay. Question. Yeah. I, we don't, you know, think about like. Stuff. Oh, no no, no. Yeah. So these ones, um, I guess we could, we could add this dependency if we wanted to. Um, would it be dependency? So the. Okay, this this would be a dependency. Um. Oh, well, I guess. With data types. You don't really want to have associations. Um, data types you really want. Yeah. So it would be I would mark it as a dependency, not as an association. And um, the, um, yeah. So the standard library, we don't usually want to model it in, in diagrams because it's not really, um, like everybody. Yeah, you don't really have to add any source code for it to compile. This is just like in Java. You don't have to do anything besides, you know, this import statement. Um, and we want to think of diagrams as an abstraction of the code. Like if we want to say this is a division, that it has a list that has a list of employees. How this list is implemented. We don't necessarily want to tell anybody. Right. We want to just say the interface of this class is that this class has a list of employees, uh, in the employees attribute and in the division attribute. But we don't necessarily want to give away the implementation detail that this is going to be an, uh, list, if that makes sense. Yes. So understanding the difference between aggregation and, uh. Association in the collective. Okay. So in the context of this example, uh, we can't see it directly in the source code. So in this source code, we don't explicitly see this whole part relationship. Um, the semantics here comes from the, um, understanding that a division consists of employees, that that's the whole point of having a division that you aggregate, um, a multiple employees into some kind of semantic group. So the whole point of having a division class is to aggregate some kind of employees. Um, and then we want to show this here. So this is an example of, uh, us adding a semantic relationship on top of what we purely see in the code. Um, in general, if you see, uh, list data structures being aggregated, uh, that is often a good sign that this is aggregation. Um, but it's not necessarily always the case. Right. So aggregation. Um. Is generally a bit more about the semantics than it is about the code. So I would say the difference between association and aggregation is less visible in the code than it is in understanding what the system is about. Let's say the, um. Let's say the division, um, has a reference to the CEO, right? The CEO is not part of the division, but the division still stores the reference to the CEO. And the division is still somehow related to the CEO. Um, that would be an example of, uh, let's say if you store the reference to the CEO in the, in the division, uh, then you would have the reference in the code. But, uh, you wouldn't say that the CEO is considered part of this, uh, division. Um, so whenever you have. Uh, instances where, uh, let's say each employee is usually just considered to be in one single division, but we don't want to have employees in multiple divisions that usually would point you towards aggregation over, uh, association. If we say this whole, uh, conversation is just kind of aggregated off of, uh, people, we kind of divide people into multiple. Uh, we divide employees into divisions that usually then kind of, uh, point you towards aggregation. Um, yeah. Whenever you have a permanent reference to and another element that is not considered to be a part of the whole, then we would have association. Um, this is since we have something like. I would not say that the difference between association and aggregation has anything to do with heap with the stack, because in both cases, usually they are on the heap. Um, if you have elements only on the stack that would point more towards a dependency than it would towards an association. So that is maybe a good criterion to think about the difference between a dependency and association, because if it's on the stack, it's kind of inherently temporary, right? It's just there for this one call. So, um, if it's on the stack, you would usually think it's more likely to be, uh, a dependency. If it's on the heap, it's more likely not to be a pure dependency, but in actual association. Yeah. But it's not that type of employee that is. So you would have an employee and then a subclass of employee would be CEO, and then you would have the relationship between the division and the CEO, not as a part of any of these relationships. Um, so you can have, uh, you can have the division also having a reference to an employee that is then not an aggregation. So in this case, both relationships between the same class have the same relationship type. They're both aggregation. But that's not necessarily always the case. So you can also have a uh a non aggregation association between division and employee as well. Um yeah. If you would consider the CEO not as a class but just as a special employee. Uh, then you would do exactly this. Then you would have a, uh, a navigable hopefully a double navigable relationship between division and association that is then not, uh, aggregation. That's pure, pure association. Um. Yeah. And in this case, you actually would probably prefer to have inevitability in both directions. Usually you want employees to know in what? Uh, maybe I should update this in the slides after the lecture, because I think this is a good example of a double navigable relationship. Um, cool. Any questions about class diagrams? Class that comes to the diagrams you will most often see in the real world, because developers really love class diagrams. And something I forgot to say last week is that, uh, you can actually ask your AI coding assistant to generate, uh, mermaid diagrams or plant UML diagrams from the code. So whenever you're working with a code base and you understand these diagrams, all of the AI assistance you're using Claude ChatGPT Gemini, they all understand these diagrams. Um, and then they can generate, uh, mermaid or plant UML, uh, visualization, uh, text, uh, diagrams that you can then visualize in your, in your tool. Um, and I think Claude and ChatGPT, they both, uh, can actually visualize these mermaid diagrams, like, right in the white in the plug in. So if you work with the new code base and you want to know what, what does the code base look like? And now you have learned class diagrams, which are a higher level of abstraction than the code, it will help you getting a better grip of what is in this code base. If you just look at the class diagram, um, and uh, even though I can often make mistakes and they are actually, uh, correct implementations for this, uh, I've not seen any. I make a big mistake with UML class deck because it's so easy. It's so easy. Uh, and then installing some real static analysis plugin usually just takes longer than asking whatever UI assistant is installed already. Okay. So this is another way how you can use these the skills that you're learning by, um, you know, interacting with larger systems on this higher level of abstraction by saying, give me the diagram. You can also use them to plan your design. But if you're working with a real existing system, then this is a good reverse engineering technique. Okay. Questions about class diagrams? Yes. That's exactly right. I love this comment. So in these examples we've seen very, very detailed class diagrams. They show you a lot of detail. Uh, once you're working with very large systems, you basically want to treat each of the classes just as a as one box. You don't want to look inside it. You don't necessarily want to have all of these relationships. Uh, we also see even larger, uh, diagrams in the very end of this lecture. I hope we get there. Um, but, yeah, different kind of diagrams describe different kinds of aspects of the system. Uh, and these are the ones that are the closest to code. Okay. Now let's talk about sequence diagrams. Uh, I love sequence diagrams. They are one of my favorite diagrams because they are, uh, they are showing you things that are not easily accessible from the source code. So I would actually ask my client to create a sequence diagram before creating a class diagram. Because classic, as you can often see from the code sequence diagrams are um, showing you time based view of how messages, how different components or classes interact with each other. So you can think of this kind of like as a timetable of, uh, the columns representing the classes or actors and then the rows representing some increments of time. Uh, and each object has its own dashed lifeline that. Let me show you this example. So this is a sequence diagram. So you have your objects here. And then you have the lifelines. And they basically represent time from top to bottom. So top is let's say the past and then bottom is the future. The time flows in this direction. And what's really important to understand when you think of sequence diagrams is first that they show interactions not between classes. They show interactions between objects. It's very important. A lot of students confuse the two. So we do not show well on class diagrams. We show static relationships that exist between all instances, uh, of the class in a sequence diagram. We show examples of interactions between instances of the class. So we can't actually have, uh, the class show up multiple times in the same diagram. So here we have a passenger, we have a station. We have a train. We can also have another passenger. Maybe the two passengers can also somehow interact with each other. And to show that this is an instance and not a class. We use this colon. So the colon tells us that now we we're not talking about a class, we're talking about an instance. We can also give it a name. So on the left hand side of the colon we would have the name of the instance. In this case, the name doesn't really add a lot because you know, there's a passenger train and a station, but we can give um, different passengers names or different stations and name. We can say this is the, um, start station. There's an end station. Um, well, there's a colon station and target station. Um, or we could say this is a, um, um. We could give passengers, uh, additional roles and we show the interactions between these diagrams. So we say here that the passenger is calling push button on station. And then after this, a call has happened. Then, uh, station is calling add stop on station. And then after this call returns, then this call returns. And then at some point later, these doors open. Uh, and then we have a push button off the passenger, uh, to the train, and then the doors close. Uh, so we show the order in which interactions are happening. These lifelines. We call them. The execution specification is a very fancy term for basically just saying that the object is doing something. So you can think of this as this instance is now computing something. So a method that is being called on this object is on the stack. Or uh, the the object is doing is busy. Whenever we have um, real people, we usually draw them always as busy because usually when they alive, they're doing some kind of active, you know, for not photosynthesis. They do, uh, uh, like the metabolism is doing something. So even if they're not doing something with respect to our app, they're still kind of busy doing something. Um, this does not necessarily mean that it has to consume CPU time. Uh, this basically just means that it's potentially waiting for a response. Okay. Yeah. So the lifeline is basically just saying this is this object execution specification. Sometimes you call it the activation bar. That model is the period of time for which the object is doing something. It's performing actions or behavior. And it can also be nested. Let's say the object is calling uh a method on itself. Then we would uh, draw a self message and then we would nest the execution specification. Yes. This means that inside the station class there is a function that calls trains. Yes, exactly. That's exactly what it means. So this means that in the train class, there is an add stop method, and that, uh, the station, uh, is calling add stop on that, uh, train object. And from this, uh, sequence of time, this is what's called a sequence diagram. Uh, we can actually see that this is happening inside of the publish button class, uh, method. So inside of the publish button, we then call add stop and then some cases in which it's not happening. So here this closes the doors. Um, we don't have an example of code for this, but we have example of code for this. But yeah, this is exactly what it means. So whenever you have a message arriving at an object, this means that the class or a superclass, uh, of this object is implementing this method. And then the caller is calling this method. Okay. Uh, the purpose of sequence diagrams is not to show all executions, but to show important executions. So you can't really expect people to either draw or look at all possible executions of the system. So sequence diagrams show us examples that are relevant for a certain modeling goal. So we want to describe a normal flow or we want to describe a potential buggy flow. Uh, whatever we want to do. We just show examples. Uh, sequence diagrams still allow us to show multiple examples at the same time using fragments. So we can, for example, say that there's a loop, which then means we don't have to draw all of the, uh, messages from the beginning. We can just say we have some behavior that is looping over each item, and then we can also have an old fragment that's basically an if else. So the old fragment says, uh, we do either this or we do that. Um, the opt fragment is an if without an else where we just have a condition. So here we are saying needs confirmation as the condition. And if this condition is true then we confirm this. These fragments. They are always shown as rectangles. They go over all of the lifelines that are affected by, let's say, this condition or this looping. Um, and they have this like, um. Cut corner, rectangle shape, uh, where they then say it's a loop whenever it's a repeating behavior. It's old when it's alternative behaviors. When it's optional behavior. Uh, you also see this notation. This kind of looks like, uh, like an initial state, right. Uh, what what would you guess might this represent? It's not an initial state because we didn't show states here and then no states in here. So what could this be? It's not an initial state. Who has a guess? Yeah, same. Huh? Many times when time is zero. A good guess, but it's not the case. Yeah. Yes. So we call this a phone day message. So this is this is a message just like any other message, with the only difference being that we don't want to or we don't know. Uh, uh, we don't want a model who is sending this, or we just don't know who is, uh, who is sending this. So we just say somebody is calling dispatch on order, and then this process starts. We don't really want a model. Who is the one sending this message? Uh, so this is how you can usually start your flow, or you can say, uh, let's say if you have a client server system and you just don't want to model the client, you just want to model the server, then you would show this as a, as a phone message. Um, the, um, opposite of a phone messages, a lost message that basically just goes exactly the other way, where you are saying you're sending the message to somebody and you don't want a model who is receiving this message. Um, yeah. I think this is a this is a quite useful notation element to have, because then you can show the start of a flow without modeling who is actually starting this. Okay. Yeah. So what's happening here? So we have orders. We have a distributor. We have two different distributors here. We have an example of a two instances of the same class being in a, um, in the same sequence diagram. And whenever we receive an order, we loop over each item. And if the value of the item is more than $10,000, if it's a very valuable item, then we want to dispatch it to the careful distributor, who's maybe more expensive, but, uh, who has a higher reliability. And if it's a lower value item, then we want to dispatch it to the regular dispatch. It was maybe cheaper, but it might break things, maybe have a higher probability and then. Yeah. So we we always dispatch it just to one of the two. But we dispatch every single item. And then afterwards if we need a confirmation then we send a we send a confirmation. We don't really model when a confirmation is needed. We just say okay, sometimes we send this confirmation as whatever condition decides this means it's needed. This is kind of what this this diagram is supposed to show. And and here you can kind of see that this is um, this is a really, really useful diagram. Because if you look at this diagram and you imagine the source code of the system, right. This is probably like thousands of lines of code for you to identify that this is what's happening. It probably takes you, I don't know, maybe like half an hour to really read the source code to understand that this is what's happening. Um, in the diagram, it takes a maybe like a minute to identify what's happening. So it's much quicker for you to understand what's going on between different classes. So having this bird's eye view on the system to understand what are the important collaborations between the objects in your system. You can see this in these diagrams much easier than you could by just looking in the code. And sequence diagrams are especially useful because they usually show you the kind of behavior that is really critical for you to understand what is happening in the system. So if you have good sequence diagrams in your system, that's really, really valuable. And they are also incredibly useful whenever you're designing your your system. Let's say you, you implement a um, client server system. You often want a model. What kind of messages us in between the system? What kinds of, um, in what order are they sent? Uh, what happens if, um, the messages of that type? How many clients can you handle at the same time? Uh, so sequence diagrams can. I will show you this. Um, there's also a special message, of course, and that's always a special message for something. Uh, there is a create message, uh, that we show, um, as a dash line. So if it's a dash line and we say create, um, and then it's a create message, and a create message always ends at the top of the lifeline. This says now we create the object. So it hasn't been in existence uh, until that point. But now we've actually created it. So you can model that your sale object as creating a payment object and then sending authorization. So this is how you can model, uh, the creation of an object. Um, you can also model the destruction of an object with a large fat cross going across the line and then an arrow pointing towards us. And we have an example of it. Uh, so, like, we don't have an example of a destruction, but usually creation is more it's more useful. Um. Yeah. So the the Java source code of this would look like this. So you have a register class that has some method. So method here is kind of a placeholder. We don't really know how it's called. Um but there's some method and that is calling make payment on the sales object. And then in the sales class we have a make payment of uh method. And then somewhere here we are creating a payment object. And then we call authorize on this object. So we don't really know how this method is called. But everything else uh, we do not we also don't really know if there is maybe some other code. There's probably a lot of other code that's probably a lot of important calculation going on there. Um, but this is this is what we what we know from this diagram. So we've focused on these aspects of the code. Okay. Questions? Yeah. Could you speak a bit louder? Do you know that? Like. Oh. Uh, the question is, why do you know that sale is, uh, a part of the method signature? And the answer is, we don't really know. Uh, so, yeah, it could also be that it retrieves this from somewhere. Um, so, uh, yeah, this is, I guess, maybe a slight over approximation of our confidence and what this actually looks like. Yeah, it is true. Then it could also be that within some method, it just retrieves the sales object and then calls it directly without it being part of the signature. Um, but it's kind of hard to show code like this, but I guess we could maybe, maybe an easier way to, um, uh, visualize this. Uh, let me maybe change this to, um. We don't even know that this method is public, right? So we just know that somewhere here. We have some code. That does this right. We don't even know if it's part of a method. It could also just be somewhere else so we know it's going to be. Make this. I don't know. Yellow. So. I guess maybe that's maybe bad. I like it blue. Okay, so this is not actual, you know this. This exists somewhere. Somewhere here we have this code that. That's maybe a more precise representation of this. Yeah. Another example could look like this. So if we have a class A in class B we have a make sale here. So we know that A is calling make sale um on B. Uh so here again we have maybe let's say let's get rid of these methods. I think it's actually nicer to, to not have these methods here. Uh, and just have um, this is some code that is somewhere. Yeah. Kind of like this. More. Let's do this. You know. So we have some code here that is, uh, calling make new sale on B, and then we loop over the items. So we in, um, l we could just show this as, you know, more items. Um, so to show that we loop over all of them, and then we, we enter the item with its ID and quantity, um, and then um, we calculate the total, uh, you know, the sum of these, this is maybe not shown in the diagram. Um, but, uh, yeah. Then the description is received from somewhere, uh, because this one is okay or this is important. This is a, uh, return to a synchronous call. So we basically say, uh, end to item is called here. Uh, and then we retrieve multiple return values. Uh, this in Java because every function can just have a single return value. This like syntactically cannot be a single return value. But in Python you can have multiple return values. So in Python this could just be a single line. This could just be total comma description equals b dot end to item. But in Java that's impossible. Um and then after the loop then we we call ncl on our B object. And we know it's the same object because it's the same object. Um, so this we definitely know for sure. Okay, this makes sense. So the dashed arrow is the is the result of the response to a synchronous message. So whenever this is between objects, this means one object is making a call on the other object. And then this is this is saying this is the return of that of that call. Um, and this can be so in usually it would be the actual, you know, return value of the function. But um, because, um, L is not having an, a formal semantics that work across all different programing languages. In this case, we can also because we have multiple return values, we have uh description and total. We can also just get them. Why get us. So we can call this message and then we get the return value is why I get us. So this is what's happening here. In the more traditional case it would just be the actual return value they would see. It is synchronous because of this error type. So in sequence diagrams there are two different kinds of messages you can send. You can send synchronous messages. They have a um filled arrow. Uh and then if you have an open arrow then uh, it's an asynchronous message. The asynchronous message means we are not waiting for the response. This one says we are waiting for the response. So whenever you make a call on an object that is, you know, by probably all programing languages that I know of, asynchronous call. Um. Maybe there could be some programing language where that's not the case. But you can also use this to have communication between, um, let's say client and server or different microservices that talk to each other, where then it actually makes a big difference whether this is like a busy wait or whether this is an asynchronous call that has some kind of callback somewhere. Uh, so then you can use the asynchronous call for, um, calls to, um, you know, microservices that have go somewhere like return callback or something. Okay. Other questions. Okay. Yeah. So the types of fragments that you have. Alt for alternatives. So an alt and up. The only difference is basically that the opt only has one condition. The old has multiple fragments. Loop is iterating. A part is parallel. So you can also model that two types of behavior are actually happening physically in parallel with the part of fragment that has multiple lanes that are parallel. You can say there's a critical region, um, from a, you know, thread perspective, from a concurrency perspective. Um, but yeah, the the top three are the ones that you usually see most. I have not seen a lot of power and region, uh, fragments in the real world, but the top three use, you see, all over the place. Um. Okay, let's write some pseudocode for this. Diagram. Talk to your neighbor like. Write pseudocode with the neighbor code, which enables. As time passes quickly. We're almost, almost done. Um, okay. What? What would you suggest our pseudocode looks like? That's, uh, earned a high two and suggests, um. Um. Pseudocode. Yes. No class A room inside. Okay. There's the. X or dou x. Within this function, you have an if statement that says that if x is less than ten, um, calculate uh, then. Mhm. Then. Else. Yep. That's exactly right. Yes. Yep. So we know that there is the do x function with the x argument. And if it's smaller than ten we calculate on some b whatever this b comes from we don't really know where the b comes from of and otherwise we call it on C where a c comes from. Okay. Um, yeah. We also can have action boxes on our sequence diagrams. I see them rarely, because the whole point of sequence diagrams is showing the interactions, not necessarily what is happening. Um, like, uh, on the execution of a lifeline. But you can't do this. So here, for example, you can loop over the items. You can have this special syntax for looping over multiple elements within a, uh, within a, uh, sequence or collection. Uh, you, you basically use this square bracket AI to say, uh, we index this by AI, um, and then we can loop over AI, and then we can call s t a subtotal, and then we add subtotal and we increment AI. Uh, yeah. So you can have these as well. I think you'll see some of these notations in the homework as well. Um. Questions about this. The code basically looks like this. Uh, so here you have, uh, for each loop, uh, we model this as a with an AI, even though it doesn't actually occur inside of the source code. So you don't see any I. Uh, this is because, uh, the sequence diagram and the code, they don't necessarily always have to have a 1 to 1 relationship. So even though, um, we use AI here because this is just the UML notation for, uh, an element inside of a list. Uh, so UML doesn't really allow us to have a like for each loop, we have to have this, uh, the same behavior represented just with different notation. Um, so we have invented this AI because we don't have an actual for each loop without AI in UML, even though in the real Java code, uh, we actually have, uh, uh, you know, you can see this from, you know, Python as well, uh, where you just iterate over all of the items in a list instead of using AI as an index. Yeah. And then you here you have your total and your total dot add state. Um. Yeah, usually we don't draw sequence diagrams and that level of detail, but you can if it's important for you to show that there is something happening here that's not like a function call, then you can do this with this kind of like rounded rounded rectangle, uh, notation I call this an action box. Um, okay. Let's skip this. We can do this at home. Um, and. Yeah. So this is just a really, really tiny subset of UML. So UML is huge. Um, there are a lot of diagram types that we have not covered in general. Uh, UML is a very common language. So most people will if they are familiar with some modeling language it's probably going to be UML. Uh, it's very useful because it's visual. It allows you to focus on the most important things and to communicate the important intent of your architecture. Um, we say a picture this, uh, more than a thousand words. And that is certainly true for for well-crafted UML diagrams. Um, it is a semi-formal modeling language, so it has some, um, meaning to its, uh, boxes and lines. Um, but it's, um, it's not as formal, like, um, when I did my PhD, we did quite a bit of modeling with a modeling language called alloy. Uh, there is a lot of formal modeling languages that can do what UML can do, but then with formal, uh, analysis. But most people will not really know alloy. Most people wouldn't know UML. Uh, there are also a lot of commercial tools. They can either generate them from code or can generate code from these diagrams. So you can use them for code generation or for diagram generation. Um, and that can be quite useful. The bad uh, it's kind of like a hodgepodge of a lot of different, uh, notational elements. So, uh, just because, um, has a notational element doesn't necessarily mean that you want to use it. Um, it has a lot of these, uh, and, um, it also doesn't necessarily scale well. So if you have a really large class diagram, you see this like Doxygen is generating these class diagrams for you, for your complex systems. And it's so large that, like, you can't really see it at all. And there's no way how you can see this. Um, and you want to be really, um, explicit about what is the important aspect of your system, and you want to draw a diagram of the important aspect, not of everything. So your goal should never be to just model everything you want to model what's important. Um, yeah. Sometimes the semantics is unclear. It doesn't necessarily translate well to all kinds of programing languages. Um, yeah, that's just kind of a thing. Uh, I've also included some slides for other types of diagrams that we won't get through in this lecture. If you're curious, you can also learn about component diagrams and about entity relationship diagrams, uh, in this lecture. But yeah, seems like we have run out of time, so we will not cover these. We might cover some of this in the software architecture lecture. Um, at the end of the class. Um, but. Okay. Yeah. Now it's time for you to fill out your exit tickets. Um, and then I'll see you on Thursday. Oh, the the book that I recommend is one of my favorite books on modeling. It's called a documenting software architectures. Yeah. You can, um, uh, get this, uh, the digital version via the UCLA Digital Library. Um, uh, this is one of the, um, books from the CMU is CI series on software engineering. So it's both practitioners and academics that have been part of writing this book. And I think, uh, when you carefully read this book, you will, uh, think about software systems in a different way. It gives you different kinds of ways to think about the different views of your system. Uh, so this is really, really a highly a high recommendation to read to re documenting self architectures. Um, it's certainly one of my favorite books. Um, and another reason why we teach you modeling is so that whenever you're designing systems, you are explicitly thinking about the different views of your system. I think we are going to talk about this a little bit next lecture when we talk about design docs. Um, so yeah, I might repeat some of this next lecture. Yeah. Let me repeat this next lecture a little bit, because I think this is an important point. All right. So I'm enrolled in the course. But when trying to search for someone in the sections I got.