[Auto-generated transcript. Edits may have been applied for clarity.] You know, I think. Okay, who is ready for a workout? Let's run a. No, I don't think she'd see it. Okay, wait. Oh, I think I forgot to stop recording. Okay, who's ready for a software engineering workout? Awesome, awesome. Okay, so last lecture, we taught you the best principles. Now let's look at a couple of user stories. Uh, in our software engineering gym. Uh, to see if we can find the violated invest principles. Okay. Let's look at this user story. As a customer, I want to pay for my items using a credit card so that I can complete my purchase and so on. And the user registration and, uh, card management are still not done. Okay. Which of these invest criteria are violated? Talk to your neighbor. Had a lot of talking going on. I think you need to talk a little bit. You just get this. Okay. What do you think? Who has a thought they would like to share? Yes, I like you, said Violet. Independent. Why? Why does it Violet independent if the item is not available? What if the item was not available? What item? Like whatever item is fine. Uh, okay. So which user story might this depend on? Um, one that checks it. Okay. So we said the user management and card management are not yet complete. It might it maybe depend on. Yes. Exactly. So it's not independent. Are there any other invest criteria that might be violated by this user story. Yeah. That's interesting. If it's not independent, then it's probably also not testable. So, uh, once we have implemented all of the, uh, user stories that it depends on, I would say it still becomes testable. So just because it's not independent does not necessarily mean that it's not testable in its current state, in its current state. Okay. Yeah. Lots of things to worry about. Hmm. Okay. So when a user story depends on another user story, then we still just evaluate the size of the, you know, delta that this user story adds. So we then just judge the size based on the additional delta, not on the things that it depends on. Okay. Any other thoughts? Okay, let's see what happens if we just check independent. So something we missed. Oh, no. No, we we've been we've been right. Okay, let's look at one more. As a website visitor, I want the homepage to load blazingly fast and look extremely modern so that I have a pleasant browsing experience. Some acceptance criteria. Talk to your neighbor. Which ones are violated? Oh, that's. Oh, yeah. Okay. What do you say? I think one of the best criteria that is violated is to. Because you don't know what policing fast means. So there's no way to estimate how much. Right. So. So if it means that it should respond in like in seconds, every single time or like in ten milliseconds every single time, then it takes more time for us to implement, because then we have to create a lot of, uh, duplicate servers, and then we have to do some load balancing and we have to use maybe some caching strategies and maybe some, um, uh, eventual consistency. Yes. Any other invest principles that might be valid? Yes. Small way. Small. Because you can decompose the story to smaller stories about like what it means for your experience or like what you see more. Yeah. Yeah, that's that's true. I would also, um, say that this is also a correct line of arguing. Uh, I did not say that this one is violating small because I thought, uh, it doesn't really make that big of a difference, but, um, yeah, I think I think you're you're right in the sense that there's a really strong argument that you can you can separate the blazingly fast from the modern look, because they also kind of like, quite different from each other. Yes. Any others change? Testable. Testable. Oh, yeah. That's right. So, like modern or blazingly fast, like they're both not testable. Right. So, uh, whether it's modern, that's very subjective and blazingly fast, that is also, uh, like how fast does it. Is it supposed to be. Okay. So yeah, what in an exam environment would be considered correct, would be estimable and testable. And then whether you picked small or whether you did not pick small, both of them we would consider to be correct for that kind of question. Okay? Yeah. I recommend you to practice this a little bit. Um, so that you are then well prepared. Okay. Today our lecture is about modeling. I'm going to teach you a unified model. Yes. Question to ask. Do you ever have something that is. Great question. I think we just kept showing that it's like all the other one. Oh, that's a great question. Can anybody think of a user story that is testable but not estimable, or a user story the other way around that is testable, but not estimable? Can we think of user stories like this? Oh, yes. You have an answer. We have overlapping stories that makes it harder to. Mhm. And then in one part of the second part. Mhm. Mhm. Yes. Okay. Let me give you another example. So if it would have just set up a modern design, it's not testable because we don't know what modern design looks like. But no matter what the definition is, the implementation effort is probably very, very similar, right. So like you can't write a test for it. But you know, no matter what the definition is, you can create a solution that is kind of conforming to whatever definition, taking about the same amount of time a user story that is estimable but not testable. Oh, this was one the other way around. A user story that is testable but not estimable would be one that involves, uh, in, for example, solving the P versus NP problem. Right? Uh, we can't if we find a solution to this, if you find a proof for this theory, we can test whether it conforms to, uh, to that. I agree with them, but we have no idea how long it takes. Right. If we can think of, uh, features where we can write a test, but where it's unclear how long it takes to implement, then it would be testable, but it wouldn't be estimable. So they're not. They're not 100% correlated with each other. So you always have to think about, uh, is this user story testable? Uh, is it estimable independently of each other? That makes sense. Okay. Um, other questions about invest. Cool. Then let's talk about modeling. So let's say we have a 130 team, uh, that is having a conversation about what kind of system they want to build. Um, and they want to build, uh, some kind of structure. And they talk about the structures that they want to build. When they do this with words. They often, uh, might have different ideas in their head of what is actually being talked about. What am I think of a skyscraper? One might think of a mall. One might think of a factory. Another one might think of some kind of government building. And to avoid this, we can make use of the software engineers. Favorite tool? The whiteboard. We can add a model of what we are talking about, so that everybody is then synchronizing the thoughts of what they're actually talking about. And then ideally, by putting these thoughts on the whiteboard, we then share our ideas with somebody else. And the big advantage of this kind of modeling is that it's multi-dimensional, right? Uh, speech can only be one dimensional. We we speak in a sequence of words, but, uh, having this additional dimension for two dimensional, uh, expression of ideas, uh, it's quite useful. Another reason why we do modeling is so that we can analyze the structures that we are building. Um, as we've seen in, um, the example with bridge building, um, when civil engineers construct bridges, they first come up with these blueprints and models, and then they start analyzing these models. And there are quite a few models in software engineering that have the same kind of property that can automatically be analyzed to check certain properties. And even if we can automatically check them, we can use our human intelligence to identify some bugs. And we'll see some examples like this in this lecture. And uh, what has been shown many, many times is that the earlier you identify some bug, the cheaper it is to fix when you are still in the requirements phase of a of an increment, it's very easy to fix because nothing has really been done right. We've just identified this. Maybe a requirement missing. Maybe the user forgot to tell us that, uh uh, they don't actually, uh, know how to identify what, uh, what a good password is, what a strong password is. And then I don't think we implement it or before we design it, it's much easier to fix. So this this thing just broke in my 35 lecture. So that's why in the audience today it's maybe a little bit okay. Let's see if this works. All right. That's not. Okay. Uh, in the design phase, we have not really written much code, so we can easily fix it. Uh, and then, uh, once we've implemented it, it becomes more expensive and then it becomes even more expensive once we have deployed it. And the developer who originally implemented this has been laid off or, uh, it's not working for the company anymore for other reasons, and then somebody else has to look at the code and make sense of this. So in the maintenance phase, that's the most expensive time to fix the bug. Uh, so the earlier we identify a bug, the easier and cheaper it is to fix. And modeling is a technique that moves the finding issues part to much earlier in the life cycle. So the earlier you can criticize your ideas and identify that there's an issue, uh, the easier it will be for you to fix and the cheaper. Uh, another interesting feature of modeling is that it's abstracting the real world while at the same time mapping to the real world. Uh, so in modeling theory, we describe the model as a mapping from elements in the real world to elements in the model. So there are some things in the real world that our model shows in. For example, the, um, uh, in the bridge example, we see some structures in the um, in the blueprint that will then exist in the real world. And there are also some elements in the real world that don't exist in the blueprint, and also some elements of blueprint that do not exist in the model. We have to identify that the modeling type that we pick is mapping in the right real world elements to the right modeling elements. So there are a lot of different kinds of modeling languages. So we are going to teach you use case diagrams, class diagrams, sequence diagrams, uh state machine diagrams, and also a little bit of component diagrams in this class. And then your task as an engineer is to identify what kind of properties do I want to talk about. What kind of properties in the model do I want to analyze. And then you have to pick the right modeling language that maps these real world elements to the modeling elements. This is your your challenging task. Um, so modeling is describing the system at a higher level of abstraction, which means that it does not include some of the complexity that we don't care about. It includes exactly the complexity that we want to model the abstractions of real world artifacts that could be software or otherwise, and the useful requirements in specification and also for software design. Um. Uh, last quarter, somebody asked me, uh, how often do people actually use these diagrams in practice? So I asked my friends at Google, how often do you use visual diagrams in your day to day workflow? Uh, and they said about once a week, uh, which I think for something that you learn in college is actually quite often like think about what you have learned in the previous quarter. How often are you going to really expect to use them, or are you going to use them once a week? And I think once a week is kind of like the sweet spot. What do you want to do when you implement a new feature? You want to, um, consider potential edge cases. When you're onboarding a new a junior developer, you want to show them some diagrams so that they have an easier time, uh, getting to know the system. So once a week is I feel like kind of the sweet spot. Maybe. Maybe that's my personal guess. With AI becoming a larger portion of development. It could actually become more than that, because then we have to interact with systems at a higher level of abstraction. I think visual, uh, diagrams are just the best way to do this. Diagrams can be descriptive and prescriptive, so they can describe the current state of the system. And they can also describe a system that we are currently building. For you it's really important to identify is this a diagram that currently describes the system. Because if it's supposed to be descriptive it's probably outdated. It's probably outdated. You want to check whether it's actually still accurate because many of these diagrams are created automatically manually. Um, some of them are also created automatically. In my PhD thesis, I created a technique that automatically generates component diagrams for a robotic system, some source code. But many of these tools are second research prototype, so inferring diagrams from code is incredibly hard. Okay. There are many, many notations that exist. State machines incredibly common in a database. This entity relationship diagrams are very common. Who has heard of entity relationship diagrams before? Some of you. Yeah, I've been told that it's apparently not taught in the database class. I need to talk to Remy. And he should teach this because I think, Anthony, relationship diagrams are really useful. Data flow diagrams. A lot of diagrams exist. Um, and in terms of software modeling, uh, in the 80s, the rise of the paradigm of object oriented programing has come around. And that is really well suited for modeling, because in object oriented, uh, programs, you have, uh, separate classes that interact with each other that somehow represent the real world. So a lot of visual diagram notations have come around over 50 different kinds of modeling languages. And then three people, they are sometimes called the Three Amigos. Um, Grady Booch, uh, Jim Rambo and the amazing Eva Jacobson. Uh, I've met him at Icsi at some point. I feel like he is very charismatic, amazing person. Uh, they came together and they combine some of their diagram notations into what's now called the Unified Modeling Language. And it has become the industry standard in modeling software. Um, it's, uh, basically all over the internet. So you'll probably have seen some class diagrams before. State machine diagrams are all over the internet. Uh, so if you learn the Unified Modeling Language, you will have learned the most widely used, uh, modeling language in software. And, uh, the good thing about this is that you can understand existing diagrams, and you can create diagrams that other people are also likely to understand. Um, yes. It's an enormous language. When you look at the actual UML specification document, it's over 700 pages of really, really dense specifications. By the way, don't do this. The UML specification is not designed for you. The unit specification is designed for tool builders. But, uh, yeah, there are many really, really loosely related styles that are kind of come under one roof with, um, some notational elements being reused in multiple places, but it's a very common and generally simple. And most importantly, graphical representation. A lot of formal modeling languages need people in systems design or in spacecraft engineering use, uh, that are really hard for humans to understand because they are textual. They're textual and very formal. UML has the advantage of being graphical, and it allows a lot of different people. This is why I think modeling is such an amazing, um, technique, because it allows you to express your ideas that are in your head in a way that another developer can understand. Nobody will read a thousand lines of code to understand what kind of design you're talking about. People want to understand your idea based on a higher level of abstraction. And visual diagrams are great for this because they allow you to kind of transform your ideas and your had into ideas that you had of another person, which, uh, is currently still the main bottleneck in software engineering. So writing complex code, everybody can do this. But, uh, we are currently mostly just limited by the human cognition. The reason for this is when you look at the complexity of software, it has grown exponentially. While our, you know, human intelligence, our IQ over the last decades has mostly been remaining the same, like, oh, cognitive power has not increased. While the complexity of the systems we're working with has increased, and modeling is helping you overcome this challenge. Um, in general, there are some guidance, uh, in UML. Almost everything is optional. So, uh, you can use the modeling notation to make a specific claim. Let's say there is just one element that is connected to the other element. Or you can leave out this claim and then it's unspecified. So whatever you leave out is unspecified. And then you're not making a claim about this. Uh, models are never really what we kind of consider complete. So they are intentionally supposed to be abstraction. And many elements in UML are not formalized. So we consider UML a semi-formal modeling language. So there is some part of the specification that tells us what this element is about. But it's not formal. This has advantages and disadvantages. The advantage is that you can use it for everything. The disadvantages it sometimes is a little bit ambiguous what it's supposed to be. That's kind of what you have to live with. And it's also designed to be extended. So there are a lot of extensions of UML for domain specific purposes. So SysML, for example, is an extension of UML in the systems programing community that is used uh, for then some automatic analysis of models. Um, it's actually quite often used to think NASA also uses SysML to some degree. And the different kinds of views of the architecture. Um, the most common one that you might have seen, who has seen these kinds of diagrams before, these class seconds? We've seen these before. A few. Not everyone. Very, very interesting. I would have guessed that, uh, everybody might have seen those before. Uh uh, these are class diagrams. They describe the system from the perspective of a developer, from your perspective. So they describe the classes, the methods, the attributes. And then there are, uh, state machine diagrams. These are state machine diagrams as sequence diagrams. We have seen any of these before. State machines and sequence diagrams. Okay. Uh, many people have seen those before. The activity diagrams. The these diagrams describe the behavior of a system. So in addition to the structure, you want to talk about how the components interact with each other, what happens in what order. Sequence diagrams are great for protocols. State machines are great for, uh, systems that are, um, change their behavior quite drastically for what kind of state they're in. And today we're going to talk a talk about first use case diagrams based on this example. So imagine we build a system with an automatic train. And uh that has is an unmanned people mover. So it's basically kind of like a Waymo or like a Waymo and tracks, uh, that, uh, moves on a circular track and visits each station A and B in turn. And each station has a request button. So when the passenger click pushes the request button, then that means that the train will then stop at this point, uh, and then uh, they can abort the plane and then they can, uh, push a request button, uh, to and then end up in the, um, in the next station. We are going to use this example to now talk about use case diagrams. So use case diagrams are quite strongly linked with user stories. So this is how a use case diagram looks like. It's basically showing you the system and the different kinds of users that interact with the system. Uh, so they are capturing the requirements of the system. So. Oh, I actually just realized before we move even further on this, um, I forgot and we did not actually finish the requirements portion yesterday. Uh, last in the last lecture. Um. Okay, so we talked about user stories. Uh, let me tell you about a really interesting case study of, uh, a run rate crash that's, uh uh uh, uh, accident that happened 10 or 20 years ago where a Lufthansa machine crashed because, uh, it did not correctly activate its reverse thrust. So when a plane lands on a runway, um, it has to detect that it's on the ground and then reverse thrust so that it stops. And the idea is basically that you want to have reverse thrust activated if and only if the plane is on the ground. What they did was they implemented this as a detector, that the wheels were spinning. So they were like, when the wheels are spinning, then we are on the ground and then we have to activate reverse thrust, not to crash anywhere. Um. What could go wrong with that definition of what has likely caused this accident? Talk to your neighbor. Oh, you like that? Oh, yeah. Oh it is. It's their. Philosophy. Okay, who has a guess what? Our question. This happened on the ground or. Yes, this happened on the ground. So the plane was supposed to activate reverse thrust, but it did not activate the thrust. Yeah. Then it just it did not slow down, and then it just kind of crashed into, like, a building. Uh, it did not activate the rest of us. That was the issue. Okay, talk a little bit more now that, you know, this was it was in the winter and the surface was difficult. Um, I don't know if it was. It doesn't look like it was winter, but they went to. Uh. Okay. What are your thoughts? Who has a hypothesis? Just tell us. I think. What? Oh, could you quiet down, please? Okay. Uh, students. Quiet down. Yes. Uh, maybe. Like the wheels are stuck where there's not enough pressure. The wheels were stuck, or there was not enough friction. What might happen for them not to be enough friction with the wheels? Any idea? You have an idea? Uh, I guess I was volunteered. I don't know. You're landing in in, uh, in an airport that's smells like snowy. And they didn't adequately, like, like, maybe just snowed a lot, and they didn't have time to salt it. Too much snow. Uh, any other conditions that might cause? Yes. Like a car, huh? If the brakes are like a car. Oh. Wheels with law, right? Uh huh. That's also interesting that that was not the issue. Uh, but. Yeah. Uh, rain. Rain. Yes. Yeah. So the the runway was wet. Uh, so the one runway was wet, so there was not enough friction between the ground and the wheels. Uh, which was the issue here. So they assumed. No. Well, if it's on the ground, there's, uh, they're always spinning fast enough, and they, uh. That wasn't the case for this very wet, wet runway. So can we capture this requirement? There was a violated here in a user story. Can we come up with a user story that would have prevented this book? Okay. Talk to your neighbor. They've been pretty active. I don't want it to happen this way. What if it happens? What if. I don't. Know what. I am one. The option was struggling with a switch. Yeah. So that's. Okay. Any ideas? Yeah. Any ideas? Yes. I got one. Could you repeat this practice for us? Okay. We want to have a button that activates reverse thrust. Um, so we basically want to manually override the system when the system fails. Yeah. I think that would be a good option, that there would be a good option to have. This kind of reminds me of this, um, A7 37 Max issue, where also the, uh, the pilots didn't have an override option for some feature. Uh, I think that would be a great user story to have. Uh, but is there something we could have fixed, uh, a user story that would have fixed the actual issue, that the assumption was incorrect. Okay. Any other thoughts on this? Yes. But there's some changes in terms of the plan, because the moment that it hits the ground. Okay. What do we think of this, this user story that like, basically like the reverse thrust, like activates when the pilot when when there is a slightly change in the successful version of the I don't know. But I'm just suspension. When they decided to. I. Okay. Are there any invest principles that might be violated by a user story that talks about this? Yes. But you're combining decision design decisions with the industry. Okay, who remembers the name of that invest principle? Yes. Negotiable, right? Yes. Yes. So the issue here is that, uh, the buck didn't really happen in the requirements. I agree that having an override button would have probably been good, but, uh, we don't really know if the pilots would have caught this in time. Um, so this was not really an issue with the requirements. This was an issue with the design. So this was a design buck, not a requirements book. So user stories really only help you with capturing the requirements. This was an issue. In the design. So they didn't really understand, uh, the design options. So this does kind of, uh, remind us that user stories are not really well suited for formalizing, uh, for expressing formal requirements. Uh, whenever you want to have formal requirements, you might want to use state machines or predicate logic for safety critical systems. User stories are generally not really that useful. Uh, they're also not really well suited for requirements. A for quality Edward requirements, you know, about reliability, safety, performance, availability and these kinds of things. So we usually specify quality requirements and what we call quality attributes scenarios. They always have a stimulus and a response measure. So a stimulus is an event deriving at the system. Something like uh the user makes the request and then the response measure could be the response time or it could be a change request. The user one's a different feature. And then the response measure for a maintainability requirement would be that we can implement this feature within a week. Or we can implement this without, uh, touching one of the, uh, modules, uh, so we can have a lot of different requirements that we can specify. So for performance, for example, it could be the average response time for a web request should be ten milliseconds. And we're talking about the average response time. We can talk about the maximum a minimum response time. We can say every request should receive a response after at most. So now we have a um, a maximum response time for every single request or for maintainability. We can say changing the backend database should take less than one developer a week. So, uh, user stories are one way to express requirements, but they're not the only way to express requirements that are really good for end user facing functional requirements, but they're not very good for formal requirements or for quality requirements. So you you as an engineer, you want to describe your requirements in a format that is well suited for the type of requirement you want to specify and quality requirements you want to specify them in that kind of format, not in the um. Um, user story format. Okay. Nice. You have to specify some qualitative requirements for your project. So I want to make sure that we can. Talk about this. Um. Little questions about this. Okay, everything kind of intuitive in the, uh, I recommend it. Um, so for architecture and practice, as a, uh, as a book for, uh, this class, because we're gonna cover a lot of things about software architecture in practice. Uh, you will see that in that format. Um, quality requirements are specified using a six part qualitative framework. This is how the CMU students learned in the architecture class. We're not going to teach you the six part framework for you for this class. It's enough to think of some kind of stimulus and some kind of response that is specifying that you don't want to overload. You have too much, uh, requirements. But okay, back to modeling of requirements. So, uh, a use case diagram is basically describing the functional requirements, uh, from an end user facing perspective. Uh, so this is kind of like a user story. So you can think of each use case as a user story. And then, um, you have an actor that is connected to this use case. It's kind of like the the actor in your user story, right? And then you can basically visualize all of your different use cases in one diagram that shows who takes part in this, uh, use case. And, um, yeah, it's not necessarily unreasonable to have, uh, many kinds of use cases and many kinds of actors that connect to this, uh, in this class. You don't have to draw, like, really, really huge ones. Um, and then the internal structure of a use case can then have a sequence of events where you describe the name of the actor, the entry condition, the exit condition, and then you have a flow of different events that can happen inside of this use case. So you can say passenger P arrives and presses the request button. Uh, the train arrives and stops at the platform. The doors open. The passenger steps into the train, the doors close. The passenger presses the request button for final stop. Then the doors open and final, uh, at the final stop and then exits the train. So these are all of the events that have to take place for this, um, normal train ride use case, uh, to, uh, to complete. Uh. Again, modeling is always very context dependent, so you don't have to describe the event flow for every single use case diagram that you draw. It really depends on the specific use case that you have. And then we can describe the nonfunctional requirements again using the quality adequate scenarios we have just learned. Yes. Mhm. Hmhm. So for for use cases, they can be multiple people that are involved. Uh, for user stories, we usually just describe it from the perspective of the person initiating the use case, a user story, but for example, can cancel order and manage order. Uh, they they might involve a secondary actor who is also involved in this use case. Or they could be that this use case could also be initiated by an admin. An admin could also initiate canceling the order of a customer. Uh, so this is why you can have multiple actors that can be connected to a use case. Okay. Other questions. Okay. Um, yeah. So the notational elements that you have in a use case diagram, um, includes. The actors, the system boundary, the system name, the use cases and associations. So the system boundary is is mostly just symbolic. So you basically just draw the system boundary to give this system a name, so that people who look at this diagram see, oh, this is the train system. This is not some kind of special subsystem. This is not the, um, machine that, uh, where the customer gets a ticket. Now, this is the training system, um, and we basically draw the system boundary to show that the actors are outside of the system. So this is more of a kind of symbolic notation. Um, but the system name is usually quite useful to know, because then you know what kind of diagram you're looking at. Um, then your actor has a name. They're usually drawn in the stick figure, uh, and then your use cases are ovals that are connected to an actor. Um, so the actor, this is really important. The actor is not describing a, an individual human. The actor is describing the role that a user takes in the use case. So here we have a passenger and we have a technician. Um, this does not necessarily mean that these people are two separate people. A technician can also take the role of a passenger in their free time. So the individual person who is a technician can then also be a passenger at another point in time. Um, so yeah, a single user could represent could be represented by multiple, uh, actors that play different roles in this use case. And then the use case is kind of like a user story. And the association means, uh, that the actor is involved in that use case. So they could be the primary actor, there could be a secondary actor, it could be a temporary tannery actor in that use case. So they are somehow involved. They are not necessarily always involved, but they are sometimes, uh, involved. And so this is the association we draw down. Hope everything so far is still, uh, intuitive. If you questions, raise your hand. Okay. Okay. And then use cases. Can't have relationships with each other. So we can't include one use case in another. So let's say push button is part of right. So then we say right include pushbutton. And now we're getting in the nitty gritty UML notation. This is which students sometimes um perceive as a little bit tedious which I kind of agree with. But what we do with these notations is we have to have a dashed line with a with an open arrow. This is the notational element that UML uses for include relationships. So this is not dotted not straight. It's dashed. And then it is an open arrow. It's not a closed arrow. And then in these uh angular brackets we say include not includes. No include. That's the keyword. Um. And the direction goes into which the include relationship goes. So this means the ride includes push button. So the semantics of this is said whenever somebody uh, uses the right um, a use case, then they always have to push the button. So it's an for all quantifier. You can think of this for all quantifier. Okay. Uh, then we have extension. We can say, uh, pay fine. Can extend. Right. And again, it goes into the reading direction. So now pay fine. Is there exist scenarios of right where pay fine is a is an element of that use case. So this kind of and intuitively kind of goes in the opposite direction. But again it goes into the redirection. So there is an exceptional variation to this use case where pay fine is an element. And we see okay there's no association between passenger and pay fine. But there is an association between push button and passenger. The rule is that if a person can initiate this use case, withdraw this association so the passenger initiates pushing the button, the passenger does not initiate pay fine. This use case is initiated by the system, so there's no association there. Then we also have generalization where we can say, um, push train button is a specialization of push button. And then we use this open triangle. Um, and we're going to show you some some point later. Um, yeah. So this notation this this, you kind of have to memorize or you have to put on your cheat sheet for your, uh, for your exam if you don't want to memorize it. Um, yeah. Errors, uh, here are dashed and point in the reading direction. The verb is written in double angular brackets and in its base form include, not in quizzes. You just have to memorize this or you have to, you know, put it on your chart. That's UML. If you use these notations, you want to conform to these notations. Yeah. This is how specializations look like. Um, the nice thing about UML is that all of these annotation elements kind of reoccur in different kinds of diagrams. So class diagrams have exactly the same generalization and has exactly the same meaning. So this is an is a relationship. So synchronize wirelessly and synchronize serially are both special cases of synchronized data. So they inherit all properties from the parent use case and then specialize them so they can replace on hands behavior. This is how we how we draw them. Okay. Questions about this. Okay. Yeah. We have to draw this next to the general system. Next to. Next to. Okay, so we usually express. It was a general. Oh, this would be part of the end of the main use case diagram. So they would still all be inside of the, um. So this is just a part of a use case diagram. So we still have the system boundary. And they're all all of these use cases are then part of the the system boundary. Um, so yeah, this is just a, you know, uh, this expression of this additional notation, this is not supposed to be like a full, full use case diagram. So we put them together in one diagram. Um, yeah. And they have a hollow. It doesn't necessarily. I can check this in the, um, specification. It is usually I have to set this, but it's not part of the specification. It's just a convention. Uh, as an arrowhead. Okay. Um, yeah, it has to be hollow. It's not dark when it's dark. Yes. It's different when when when this line is dashed, it's suddenly something completely different, which we can see in the class diagrams, but, uh. Yeah, you want to you want to be familiar with these kinds of notations. Okay. Um, yeah. We talked about inclusion. So whenever a user purchases an item, then they always log in. So purchase item includes login track progress includes login. And then the extension means there's a distinct flow of events that are not considered part of the normal or basic flow. So we kind of leave the, you know, formal semantics of what a use case is. And now we we add some additional semantics that are adding some interpretation to what is the normal flow. So the normal flow is purchase item. And then log debug info is in is an uh only happen sometimes we don't consider it part of the basic flow. So when a user pushes purchased an item, debug info can be logged in some cases, not all of the cases. So this is a this is an existing quantifier. That's specifically saying this is not part of the normal flow. Okay. Okay in English. Look at this diagram. What does this diagram say? Okay. Talk to your neighbor. At some point in their. Yeah. And we have to include, uh. We have to do that. Right? That's right. That's a full quantifier. Okay. For for this slide, though. For this. Uh, these are not. Not like include. Right. That's right. So there are specializations. So the the difference between include and uh generalization is that when, when when we have include it basically means every single flow through the use case includes this sub use case. So we give a hierarchy we say this is a smaller use case. That's part of the main use case. And generalization says there is there are different kinds of user stories. So use cases that have some varying behavior where we say that's a special case. It's kind of like you can think of this as class inheritance. There are some special use cases that do something different. You could also, in many cases, uh, encode this with like an extension point where you say, uh, there are some special cases in which you extend this, but then you are not giving this a name, you're not giving the over use case a name. So generalization gives you the option to give the name to the special case, so that you can then refer to this in other documents. Yeah. So if I want to include the generalization described here, do I have to draw another two circle as like um. Draw narrow like this. Oh this this is uh, just a definition of what extension is. And then yes, they would be. Yes, exactly. It would be European. We usually draw the, the generalization the other way around. But of course. Yeah. As. Yeah. So this is how you usually draw them. But that's more of a convention. But yeah you, you would, you would add those kind of like this. That's right. Also like this includes kind of important you. It does not. So it's a part of the use case. It doesn't necessarily stay with us at the end, in the middle or at the beginning of the use case. It just says the use case. That's right, that's right. That's exactly what it says. Yeah. Okay. What do you think? What? Who would like to explain? And yes, of course, we would be far away. Oh, loan and borrow. One is you are the person giving it. The other one is you are the person getting it. Okay? Okay. You should get one for this question. So, um. Okay. Who wants to describe what this diagram does? No. Okay. Nobody's brave. Okay. There are some people brave in the first and second row. Okay. Yes. Um, so from my library. Don't book or borrow books. And when they're alone in book or borrow book, they always have to. That's right. This is also what you want to say. Okay. That is one minor difference. One minor addition to this, which is that check identity is not something that they do themselves. So then the lack of this association basically says the system initiates check identity, not the user. That's the only thing that we need to add here. So yeah, my library allows each user to loan or borrow books. Whenever loaning a book, my library checks the identity of the customer. And, um, yeah, that's that's basically what it says. Very simple, very easy. Um, any questions about this? Cool. Now let's go in more detail on extent. What does this mean? Okay. Talk to your neighbor. Uh, though, uh, what does that mean? What does that mean? A refuse loan means that you want a loan something. But then the library says you can't do it like you have. Let's say there are too many loan, too many books, or you're overdue on some books. So there are some cases in which the library refuses. Think you will? Okay. Who wants to share their interpretation? I feel like that portion of the lecture probably wants to share their thoughts. Yes, you. Sometimes when the customer borrows a book, the loan will be replaced. That's exactly right. So the customer can borrow a look from my library. But in some cases, the library can decide to refuse this loan. Okay. Cool. Then, um, we can describe in more detail what these extensions entail using the notation of extension points. So we can describe a point in the execution of the borrow book use case. So that is validation is a point in the execution of this process. So remember use cases have this flow of events. And there's one point in this execution where status validation is happening. And then we can add a note. So this is a UML note. It is a dotted line that is kind of attached to some notational element. And then it has uh this kind of flipped flipped corner, um, where we can add a condition so we can say too many books borrowed. This is the loan, this is the condition. And then we extend this at the point of status validation. So a use case can have multiple extension points. And then we can say this is the condition in which this extension is happening. And the point in the execution when this is added is the status validation extension point. So now we've we've added additional insights, uh, to the flow of events in this diagram. Okay. Questions about this. Yeah. If you have multiple extensions. You could probably say, or something like. I guess more or I guess you could also say, and you could add an extension to multiple different points. I mean, you got multiple extensions to the same. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. You're going to have a list of the. Okay, so the extension points are the points in the execution when they happen. If there is another extended use case that also extends status validation, then you would have just another use case that has basically the same kind of note, just a different condition. So if you have multiple like multiple use cases that extend the same point, if you have one use case that is added to multiple extension points and then you can you can have like logical options there as well. I mean you could have another thing called identity validation. That's right. Yes. There could be like an like check identity. Could be an extension to identity validation. Yeah, exactly. So if there's another point in the execution where there could be some extension, then you just add another one here. Um, and, um, these notes don't technically have formal meaning. This is just kind of added to UML. Okay. Other questions. Yes. Uh, how do you determine the direction of the. Okay. It goes in the right direction of extent. So in this case, refuse loan is something that extends the larger use case borrower book. So this is the way in which you draw the arrow. So it goes in the direction of the verb. The questions. Cool. Yep. We talked about this. And summary of use cases. So they show all of the different actors that are in the system. Um, the use cases, the relationships. Uh, actors are kind of like agents that are external to the system. They're not part of the actual system. Uh, and they it can also add some supplemental information, uh, in additional documents. So you can describe the preconditions of a use case. You can say this use case can only execute if this precondition is true. Uh, you can say whenever you execute this use case, then this post condition is guaranteed by the system. Um, you can describe the main and the alternative flows. These are all kind of additional documentation that you can add. And you can also add some nonfunctional requirements. But these use case diagrams they're only really relevant from the perspective of the requirements of the system. So they don't describe the actual design of the system. They just describe what the system should do in a perspective that can then be used to show to the actual user. So these use case diagrams, we consider them kind of boundary objects. So they can be shown to uh actually users of the system kind of like is this really the functionality you want? Um. Okay. Questions about use case diagrams. That's me. Take a quick break before we go into state machine diagrams and be like five minutes. What a perfectly descriptive and expressive one. A client can claim like a program that prints itself. Oh, would that be perfect? What do you do? Not really. There's, uh, there's a type of program, though, that's called a Klein. That if you type it. Have you ever been and you write that output is a string that is exactly the same thing. So I'd be like, you know how normally if you have a model, there's like the distinction between maths and like um, and like the actual landscape. Mhm. Um, so then you have to have the model and the whole thing. Yeah. Just like this might be, this would be like the one case where um. It prints itself. It would be the in Honolulu. And I think it's up because it tells you exactly. And it also. And I'll do. The new thing to me. Yeah. And it also perfectly encapsulates the other thing that exists. I'm not sure if I would consider something a model that doesn't actually have a collection. How does he know that spectrum? How do you define it? Let's actually say that are some elements that are part of the original, but are not part of the problem. Well. So you. Well. Okay. But here, here's my question. Right. Any computer programs like. If you consider any of these programs to be some type of abstraction of what's really going. And consider that abstraction alters the menus of the behavior. Yeah, yeah. So how are you abstract abstracting. Like why why do you make the. But then it's then it's kind of prescriptive. What do you mean? If the original is execution also for the programing model, then it's the model execution. So. I don't think so. But no, but it also perfectly describes, like the execution of the program is the program itself. Yeah. So like technically, technically. Now I get here the only time. Can perfectly represent a real thing is if you have the exact same amount of information as the right, but the output of the program is the program itself and all of the extensions of the program itself. Yeah. That okay. That's so. Yeah. So that the perfectly like the best model of. Like the best model of the landscape. Like, you know, Mount Everest is Mount Everest, right? Like like this is a this is this is good. I love this conversation, but I would say this is close enough. So things. Okay. So whenever I look at for example, whenever I look at something. There is intrinsically something that's going to be left out. Yes. What is that? This is again, this is like a, you know, not like directly applicable in any sense, but it's like, what is this chair? If I, if I have an idea of like this chair, what actually is this chair getting into? Like, um. Yeah, exactly. Chair. I didn't know this exact idea of a chair. If you have, like, the exact. Right. Yeah. Where where the idea is different than the physical thing. Yeah, yeah. So the only thing that can do it, like, like even saying Mount Everest is not actually, like, even if you. Ever since the name of the mountain. So it's a model. It's a model. But even if we went to Mount Everest, not everybody would see the same Mount Everest because we have different necks. Yeah. And what are the boundaries of a difference? Right. Like, like like, is there a disagreement between you and say, this is part of Mount Everest? And so if you can't even define Mount Everest, the only thing that can like the only thing that can represent Mount Everest is. Is whatever it is itself and it's indescribable. Like otherwise, right? Like it? Yeah. Like it. Like there's no perfect model. Except the thing that sounds. Really. Um, that makes sense, but okay, since otherwise it's not a model. So in engineering disciplines, and I think also like in life in general. Um, every model is designed with a specific goal. So for example, if you want to climb Mount Everest, you might have a map of the campus of the, um, of the path. Yeah. And if you, um, then want to plan your trip, you also might look at a weather map. So you have different kinds of models for different kinds of purposes. Yeah. So, um, I wouldn't necessarily say that the best model or the ideal model is the model of the object itself. Because. Because then the use cases, it's not because then it would you might have to like it's perfect in that it contains all the information. Yeah. But it might not be perfect in that it accomplishes the goal you want. Exactly. Because leaving out information is actually beneficial. Seems like. Yeah. So not strictly worse. So if your definition of perfect but that definition that you mentioned earlier, the perfect model of the code would be the perfect. But to find a bug, you might want to have a higher level of abstraction to understand what the system does. A higher level of abstraction might be useful. So. But I would argue that for a client in particular, um, because it prints itself and it's, it's a very specific thing. It's very like fragile like you can't just you can't just change like one part of it and then have it print the new modified part with that change. Part, like every single component is like extremely important. And that makes sense. And so in that case the actually like the best model is the literally the thing itself. There's no better way. Um, because there's if every component is is critical, is mission critical, and leaving out any component is contrary. And so I would argue that for Klein, the perfect model is the client. So it is I would say it's perfectly descriptive because it perfectly like I would say, it's perfectly described as the definition of what a client is. The perfect, perfect model for a client is the text that says a program that prints itself. Well, yeah, I guess perfect as in flawless, yes. But the perfect model, uh, like, uh, like Mount Everest is Mount Everest, but that has no meaning. It has like the definition of Mount Everest is nothing has like a perfect definition. Right? There's nothing like, perfectly definable. What's the name? Ethan. I know that he sent me an email or something. Well, why didn't I know your name? That's nice. You know, pretty nice. I mean, even if there's another Ethan or I looked at like it was recently. We recently got an email. Probably not. Okay, there's a chance I emailed, like years ago. Like. A. Yeah, I know this. Like not at this point. It's like not you know, I just ask is this weekend do you have any assignments this weekend and. No, no no assignments. Okay I did I put my clicker. Clicker somewhere here. Oh yeah okay cool. Let's move on to state machine diagrams. Um, state machine diagrams are kind of my favorite diagrams because in my PhD thesis, I, uh, basically, uh, inferred state machines from, uh, robotics diagrams, but they're also kind of a little bit tricky and complicated. So you want to pay attention to this? Uh, uh, quite well. So, uh, state machine diagrams are another way of describing behavioral requirements or behavioral design. They are built on the. So UML state machine diagrams are built on um, that kind of general concept of state machines on automata. But um has the, their own specific notation of what a state machine is. So it shows the various stages that an entity can be in during his lifetime. It can be used to show the transitions when the system changes its state, and also what it means to be in that particular state, uh, with two different kinds of state machines. Uh, the previous state machines, they basically show the behavior, um, that the system can go through. They're not necessarily supposed to be, uh, complete. And then protocol state machines, they show, uh, the they show only what is possible. So again, in UML you can often leave out elements. When you leave out something from a behavior of state machine. You're basically just saying, I don't know if that transition exists in the protocol state machine that you specifically say that this transition does not exist. Let's talk first about the behavioral state machines. So a state represents a condition of a model or entity for which some action, uh, is performed or some stimulus is received or some condition is met. And we uh, show them as rounded rectangles or these ovals. Sometimes you will see state machines with a circle that's technically not UML, but we're not uh, we're not going to be that nit picky. Uh, so an action that is performed is an atomic execution. So it means it's kind of we don't model the time and then an activity that is something that has time. So when the system is in the state, that basically means time passes. When the state receives an action or performs an action that is considered timeless, it's no, uh, it's completed without any kind of interruption. But within a state that can the time can pass. We model the initial state as this solid circle. So we're basically saying this is the first, uh, initial state. And then it transitions into state one. A transition is a straight line with an arrow. Um, and it usually has this notation with the beginning is the trigger. So this is basically the action that triggers the event. For example this could be pushing a button. This could be receiving a message. And then within square brackets we include the guard condition. So this condition says if this trigger is happening and this guard condition is true then this transition takes place. And then after our forward slash we describe the effect. So we can have some uh, an additional side effect. Let's say we have a variable that we increase by one or we, we show a message to the user or something like this. And all three of these are optional. So if we want to show, uh, a transition that just has a trigger, we just show the trigger. If we have a condition that only has a condition, then we just show the square brackets with the guard. And if we have a transition that only has an effect, then we just show the forward slash and the effect. We can also remove the effect. So they're all optional. Um, so you want to show the ones that are relevant okay. And then we have these decision points where we say, um, if we go here, we take a condition, okay. Talk to a neighbor. What does this diagram represent? The trigger is an action that is taking place in the system. The condition is a predicate on um, properties of the system or the environment. So the action, the action of trigger is something that takes place. And then the condition is something that we are checking after this trigger has happened to define whether the transition should trigger or not. Oh okay. So it's like a description of the system. That's right. Okay, who wants to earn some candy by telling us what's going on here? Let let it be somebody who has not earned candy today. Who wants to earn some candy? You want to earn some candy? No. Okay. Who wants to earn some candy? Nobody. Oh, beautiful. Uh oh. Thank you. Uh. Mhm. Yep, that's exactly right. Yeah. So we have this decision point where whenever a student drops, we check if there's at least one student left. So this is a model where, uh, if out of the 125 students that are currently enrolled, 124 would drop the class. The class would still exist, which for capstone wouldn't really make sense to have a project with just a single person. So this model would not apply to this class, but also like, why would 124 students drop the class if they still want to graduate? So, uh, yeah. So this also means that the grades are submitted after exam week. So grades are not submitted before the exam week is, uh, taking place. Um, yeah. So this this is the kind of state machine that you might see for systems that describe, um, you know, what's happening in an academic class decision point here. You have a final state. Yes. You have correctly identified, even without me teaching you, that this is indeed the notation of the final state. So the final state is basically a circle within a circle. Um. Cool. No. That's heavy. More complicated example. So here we have in a hierarchical state machine as a hierarchical state machine. My favorite type of state machine uh, is having states with a state machines within states. So here we have a checking out state, uh, that contains its own state machine. So what's going on here is that we start the entire. So it's a, it's a, uh, web on an online shop. So we we start in the browsing state, and then users can select items. Uh, they can then we are in items chosen, and then they can select more items within, uh, this step they can click checkout and then they end up in this hierarchical state machine in the checkout process. We start an incomplete. And then uh, if users click submit and credit card data is incomplete, they remain in the incomplete state. They click submit and the credit card data was complete. Then they end up in credit card, uh, validation state where if it was successful, the card is charged. So the card is only charged if it was successful. And then we are complete. If it was denied, then we are in transaction denied. And then in both cases if we click okay we are back in browsing. Okay. Talk to your neighbor. What issues this this design have. So I told you that we can use diagrams to identify issues in the design. Which is much easier than in the code. Right? Like, we don't want to look at the millions of lines of code of this system. So let's look at the state machine to find some potential flaw in this design. Talk to your neighbor. You know, you're not just. Yes. That's about. Yeah. It isn't. Yes, I you say you should go. Okay. Who has identified one potential issue? Yeah, yeah. Three potential issues that I would identify. Okay. I think you raise your hand first. We can unselect items. That's right. We don't have an option to take items out of our cart. We can only add that we cannot actually, I guess the way how we could unselect them is by going to checkout. Enter an invalid credit card information and then go into the browsing state. Um, but uh, yeah, we don't really have a feature for unselected items and most users might want to unselect at some point. What were your ideas? Does it make sense to check out if you don't check if you're out, if you have an item like, you know, you might have zero items and you click checkout. Uh, that's a good question. Can we go to checkout without having an item in the cart? Is this possible on this state machine? This? Yeah. Yeah. You know, because you always have to select an item in order to enter items chosen and then clicked. That's right. Yes. So you have to go through the select item transition to go into the stage where you can click checkout. So there's no connection from browsing to checkout. So you can't actually go to checkout without having an item in the cart. Yes. That's right. So they cannot really quick. Uh, so they can't really go back to uh. They have to enter some credit card information. Maybe they realize they don't really have a credit, or they want to use some other kind of, uh, payment system. Yes. Tonight they have to select another item they can go directly back to check out. Yeah. So the code is kind of empty then right. Depending on whether we we assume that when we go to browsing, uh, like, uh, that empties the cart. Yeah. So we basically if we enter an invalid credit card information, we have to go through the process of browsing that we have to add all of our items again, or we have to select another item that we cannot remove. Yes. Um, after you like, I don't have any third party catches. That's right. You can't you can't go to quit without having without going through the checkout process. Okay. Any other thoughts? Yeah. Um, it does not remove the items from the cart after you checkout. Uh, let's say you successfully purchased your item. Then your items will still be in the cart. And if you want to continue browsing, or at least it's ambiguous, right? The question whether it has removed items that is not really shown in this diagram. Right. It could be that the implicit semantic of entering browsing is that we empty the cart. It could also not be the case. So the diagram doesn't really make a claim about this. So we want to clarify this. So we've identified a lot of dif. Oh yeah. You have another idea. Uh no ways to get out of the transaction tonight or. Uh, states or by clicking. Okay. What if they do some. Oh, then they're still in the transaction tonight. And then if they reenter, then they are still in that state. That's right. Yes. Uh, any other thoughts? Okay. Nice. Yeah. So we have a lot of different issues here. Uh, okay. Did my editor quit? We just somehow. Okay. Yeah. So, for example, users cannot really leave without entering credit card data. How could we fix this? How could we fix this design? If this is what we don't want. So this this is why these diagrams are so helpful. Now we see this. Now we can have this conversation with our user, with our product owner. This is really what you want. And if they identify no no no this is not what we want. What can we do. Yes. You know. When you click quit. Uh huh. Interesting. How can we. Uh, so we draw, like, a lot of different. Oops. We draw a lot of different transitions from here. Look like a spider web. But you could do this. And then we could also make use of this amazing feature of hierarchical states, which is why I love them so much. We can just draw a transition from the hierarchical state to browsing this one. Click cancel. Now this applies to every single state that is inside of the hierarchical state machine. Um, so yeah. Oops, sorry. Uh, this this says that this transition applies to every single state inside of this machine, which is why this is so powerful. We can then, uh, draw all of the transitions out there. Okay. Really cool. Right. So you can use this for modeling some really interesting aspects of your project systems. Uh, there are also like additional notations. The history states. So the hierarchy. So this, uh, state machine is basically saying whenever we enter checkout, we always an incomplete, but maybe we have already entered our credit card information correctly, and then we want to go back and then add new items and then check out another order with the same credit card information. Then we could have a history state that says we start an incomplete, uh, and then, um, this is like an empty initial state with an H marked into it. So UML state machines have a lot of different additional notations that you can learn and study, and then you become very proficient at drawing these these diagrams. Okay, here's another one. This is a protocol state machine. So the protocol state machines are different from the behavior of state machines, in the sense that they only show transitions that are possible, transitions that are not shown and definitely not possible. And they allow you to have conditions before the trigger and conditions after the trigger. So the notation here says that if the condition is before the trigger, it's a precondition. So this says we can only perform this action if this precondition halts. So this says is verified has to be true for us to click activate. Um and then when we have clicked activate then is unique is guaranteed. So this is a post condition that is then guaranteed by this state machine. Okay. Now look at this in more detail. Talk to you about what's going on here. Okay. Brainstorm of neighbor. We say the first thing is like song for the second dance. Yes, this is the case for the non protocol state machines. Uh, so we, we dedicate this as a protocol state machine but by adding protocol up there. So now we use a different type of state machines that are defined in UML where the precondition is before the trigger and then says this trigger is only available if this condition holds for this type of machine. Protocol. State machine. Okay. What are your thoughts on this this state machine? Can you even read this on the last row? I hope, I hope you if you open the slides or you have much better eyes than I have, I can actually read this from here. But, um. Yeah. So what? What are your thoughts on the state machine? As a condition that has no balance due. So I think it's most like people with money in it. Yep. That's right. Yeah. We also have this, uh, post condition invariance. These are invariant. So they say whenever we are in the closed state then has no balance, always true and invariant. A condition that always holds whenever we are in the state. Yeah. So we basically have a, uh, yeah. Account management system with the, with the bank, uh, where we start the system, if there's a unique ID, then we can create an account. And the nice thing about these protocol state machines is that they can actually reference methods for predicates that are defined inside of your code. So you can then define this method that says is unique ID. And then you can call this and you can say okay this has to return true. And then you can actually formally verify this. So you can take this protocol state machines. And then you can use a form of verifier uh to check whether these are true. Um. Yeah. And then you can verify that all of these invariants are true. Okay. Any other thoughts on this? Yes. Chain. And protocol state machines. We don't really call them guards. We call them preconditions, post conditions, call and variance depending on what they are. So if they are before the trigger like um, okay, let's look at this transition from new to active. So we have is verified. So we can only activate our account if we are verified. So if you open an account uh, your account is new. And then when your account is new, then you activate the account only after you verify your identity with the bank. Uh, and then you can activate. And then we still guarantee that you have a unique ID. So we still guarantee that this is the case. You can also suspend the account if the code is dormant. So if you have not, um, uh, verified your identity, then, uh, after some time that is defined and is account dormant, then your account is automatically suspended. And then if it's suspended, we can, uh, request it to be resumed because we just forgot to verify ourselves. We can resume it. Um, if lock has expired, then we can unlock it. If it's active, then we can, uh, suspended. If there's a password alert and lock and, uh, is suspend requested and suspend. Uh, so we have a lot of different transitions here, uh, that we can define that are very, very detailed. Right. So this is a this is a state machine. It's very, very detailed that describes all of the different actions that the system can take. So you would use this type of diagram whenever you, uh, want to make sure that there's absolutely no bugs. Uh, and then you draw these diagrams and then you can use um, from the verification system, some TLA plus, for example. It's a great model checker that is, uh, that was used by, um, Amazon for the AWS kernel. So they basically define these kinds of state machines. Uh, and then they are got some highly paid former modeling experts, paid them for two years to formally verify that the AWS kernel actually does not have any bugs. And it conforms to the state machine that they defined. Uh, and then they find like 3 or 4 bugs or something like this and paid like, I don't know, a few million dollars for finding this, 3 or 4 million of 3 or 4 bugs. But then they could tell the customers, we actually we didn't just test, we formally verified our system. Uh, and, um, I'm not sure if this is the reason why, I guess is the number one, um, system for, um, um, of infrastructure as a service, but, uh, it might have contributed to this. So if you want to, uh, build systems that want to make very strong guarantees to their customers, uh, like. Yes. Does or if you want to build, let's say, like a health care system and you want to make sure that, uh, the medical device that you're developing does not enter certain states, then you can model them and state machines, and you can use formal verifiers like TLS plus or other kinds of formal verifiers to prove that certain error states are never happening, or that transitions always happen in these situations, or that the invariants always hold, or the post conditions always hold. So for a lot of different domains where you want to have very strong guarantees, you want to use these diagrams with this amount of detail, with preconditions, post conditions, and for other kinds of domains, uh, where you don't want to have these very strong guarantees, then you want to have, you know, state machines kind of like this, right, that are not formal, that are just kind of like, okay, they're showing the overflow just so that everybody is on the same page and we can have a conversation. So different kinds of models are used for different kinds of use cases. And we're teaching you many of these kinds of modeling use cases and modeling types so that you would then have the idea, a good idea of when to use which type of diagram when you want to in one of these situations where you need to use them for these different purposes. Okay. And I think you finished. A little bit earlier today, which I hope nobody is going to complain about. If you want to complain about this, come talk to me. I can talk to you about other things as well, but otherwise you can just complete your exit ticket and then I'm going to see you next week. So up to you on your. Um. There is currently not a lot of text on these diagrams. I mean, um, for the website you have, um. Um, because I wanted to, like, be able to bookmark cells that are important. Um, I think this, this of this, like, article is very important for my review understanding. I want to be able to add it to like this. Oh, sure. Yeah. Visual users. Is there a wall here for this? Oh, no no, no, this is a completely serverless. Uh, so this is completely static. So there's no, no login, unfortunately. But I did create this kind of, like, metal page. So if you if you do go to s e book slash and then CSS 130, um, it's not very pretty. Know doesn't. Dot HTML. Maybe with a capital C and a capital S. I don't know how sensitive all of this is. Uh, okay. So this this has all of the topics that I will cover, um, in this lecture, but it's just a single page. And I think none of the links is working. But if you want to print, let's say one document or like, I can also maybe make available like a PDF of all of the topics. Um. Um. That works. Oh, I guess you do have the the different main topics on top, and it has a little bit of UML, but I haven't really refined it, and I don't think I have the time to create all of the different diagrams from the lectures into this. Um, but yeah, I, uh, I plan to create, uh, I basically already started to create a, a notebook, um, that then has all of these topics from the lectures and all of the video recordings, um, and some of the readings that you can then query, you can ask questions about, uh, the course, um, but it will give you access to this after you've created your, your teams, because you have to manually add every single Google like UCLA Google account to this, which is going to be a little bit tedious. Um, but yeah, it will give you access to this later as well. But yeah, I yeah, I don't have any log in there because I don't have a server for this. This is just a GitHub pages website. Thank you for the amazing lesson. You're welcome.