[Auto-generated transcript. Edits may have been applied for clarity.] What a wonderful day to talk about. Scrum. Scrum is indeed one of my favorite topics to teach in a software engineering course, because. I believe that with. You know, with AI taking over a lot of parts of what software engineers are doing, it's not as easy to predict what are going to be the skills that you may need in ten years from a technical perspective. But I believe that teaching you some of the, um, kind of more human and process aspects of software engineering is, uh, therefore something that you can, uh, potentially differentiate yourself from. Um, you know, a developer who may maybe be. Automated away a little bit faster. So I think these are skills that will definitely remain relevant no matter what I is doing, because scrum is a. Um, framework that is, um, not actually designed purely just for the development of software. Scrum is a process framework, um, that works for any kind of construction activity, and it's by far the most common one in software. Um, but of course, that's not the only one. So, uh, a few weeks ago, we talked about the Agile Manifesto. Oops. Um, you do not need a timer on this slide. Um. Um. The manifesto, um, was a, um, you know, document that was written by a if you remember, a bunch of software construction gurus that, uh, felt like, uh, sharing their approach to building software with the rest of the world, uh, saying individuals and interactions are more important than processes and tools. Working software is more important than comprehensive documentation. Customer collaboration is more important than contract negotiation, and responding to change is more important than following a plan, which I guess is a manifesto that you all were born into, right? I don't think anybody here is older than 2001. Right. Um, okay. Um, and when you think about agile processes, um, now, we do not want to watch the, uh, recording of 35 L today. Um, you've all passed 35 already. Um, and out of all of the agile teams and processes, uh, scrum is by far the most popular methodology. So, um, but 71% of all organizations are using some kind of agile process. So what you learned in the agile process lecture applies to 71% of all organizations. 63% of all agile teams mention that they adopt scrum. Um, you have to put an asterix on this number because just because the leadership in an organization says we do scrum, that does not necessarily mean that they actually do scrum. Um, we'll see this. Uh, we'll see this at the very end of the lecture, uh, with an organization that says that we're safe, and I believe they do not do safety. You know, maybe they disagree with me on that. But, um, this group who has heard of scrum before, who has worked in a scrum team before. Okay. That's good. Um, so in scrum, we have, uh, three different artifacts. We have the product backlog, the sprint backlog, and the product increment. So the product backlog, you can think of this kind of as the list of all user stories. We technically call those backlog items. They don't necessarily have to be user stories. But if you think about them as user stories, you're going to get very far. And then the sprint backlog is the list of all user stories or backlog items that should be finished within one sprint. And then the product increment is something that is created at the very end of the process. And then we have uh, three different roles. We have developers, we have uh, product owners and Scrum masters. So the developers, I guess you all know what a developer does, what they contribute to, uh, the product increment, the product owners. Anybody have an idea what a product owner may do? What may a product owner do? A product owner is kind of like a requirements engineering expert. So a product owner is the person who understands the requirements and understands what the, um. Um, what the user needs and then represents those needs, uh, towards, uh, the remaining team, the scrum master. What may the scrum master do? What what would you guess the Scrum Master may do, but just based on the name Elliot. Manage the scrum process. That is actually correct. That is actually correct. And many people think of the scrum master as like a manager, right? As like the person in charge as kind of like the CEO of the team, the team lead, the scrum master is definitely not the team leader. The scrum master is kind of like a coach or somebody who is helping the team implement scrum more effectively. And then we have these activities. We have the sprint meeting, uh, the sprint planning meeting, um, where the team basically picks their scrum backlog. So out of the product backlog, they select the user stories or the product backlog items that they believe they want to get done in the next sprint. So they set the sprint goal. Um, in the sprint, that's usually 2 or 3 week iteration, uh, of uninterrupted software development. The goal of the sprint is to produce a product increment. And then afterwards we have a sprint review where we discuss, uh, have we actually implemented all of this product backlog items correctly? So then the product owner or the customer is reviewing them and then the sprint retrospective. This is very important. This is this is where real agile comes into play. Um, you want to adjust the process to the needs of your organization. You do not want to follow just a sequence of steps from the book. No, the goal of agile is to be able to adapt and, um, inspect. Uh, this is what we're going to do in the sprint backlog. And then also we have, I guess, where sort of the daily stand up, um. Do you do some stand up in your teens? Great. Great. So, uh. Instagram. Every single day, the entire team meets for 5 to 10 minutes to discuss, um. Um, what they are doing today, what they've done yesterday, and what obstacles may be in the way. Okay. Now we're going to go through. Yes, Nathan. Oh. Um. You want to keep it, like at a couple of hours or like a little bit short? Now, as long as it takes for the, um, the person who is in charge of, uh, accepting the acceptance criteria from the user stories to feel like they have done this. Uh, and, um, yeah, this this does kind of scale a little bit also with the, you know, size of the product increment, which sales with the size of the sprint, but you want to keep it at like, uh, maybe like a 3 hours or 4 hours or something like this. Um, usually you can do this much quicker. Yeah. We're going to talk about all of these and much, much more detail. So this entire lecture is just scrum and also safe which is scaling scrum. Um. So let's jump into the foundation and the theory behind scrum. So, uh, the main foundation of scrum is empiricism, which is, uh, the philosophy that making design decisions based on experience, observation and experimentation rather than detailed upfront planning, prediction and reasoning is the only way how we can effectively build software in a world in which there is a lot of uncertainty. So we work in a world where any kind of prediction we make about how hard something is, uh, how long it takes to implement something or what kind of challenges might arise when we are implementing software is basically, um, um, you know, very uncertain. So we can't really predict what's going to happen. We can only look at maybe a few weeks into the future. So whenever we try to make predictions that are, uh, more than three weeks in the future, it's incredibly hard for us to make these predictions. And, um, the problem that scrum solves, and this is something that a lot of people don't really understand, the problem that scrum solves is that you want to have autonomous teams that can tailor the process to their own internal needs, and they can, um, work the way how engineers like to work as people, not as, uh, coding machines. Um, while at the same time you make sure that the management on top is kind of receiving some data. Right? So the management wants to know whether the system is on time. The management wants to know if the team um. Sees any kind of challenges or, or problems, um, and the management needs to be able to communicate to the customer. You are able to get this set of features by that time, right? And they are only able to do this if they actually see the process, the real progress that is, that is made without any sugar coding, without developers saying, oh, yo yo, we're on track, we're on track. And then the day before the deadline, they say, oh, it might take us six more months and might take us six more months, right? Uh, so the goal of scrum is basically to enable these two things. So you want the developers to be able to have an agile process that is not usually in the interest of management. So management always wants to, you know, uh, tell from the top. Now you should do this. Now you should do that. Um, and the developers don't want that. So scrum is kind of like a compromise between these two interests, the interests of management to see what's happening and to be able to prioritize and to, um, to do a little bit of monitoring, uh, while at the same time giving, uh, developers the freedom to, um. To make their own choices. And empiricism is basically saying we can't really predict things that are super far out in the future. So we are only going to predict the things that are within our control. And then we, um, provide these predictions to upper management. So that's the whole goal of scrum. Um, and uh, scrum and all other processes that are built on this idea of empiricism. Uh, therefore work really, really well in any situation. And we do have a lot of uncertainty. So whenever you build software where requirements may change, where the, uh, solution to the problem is not necessarily clear, there are a lot of different approaches, and it's hard to describe what you all have to do to get to a solution. Then you want to think about a process that implements this, uh, principle of empiricism. Um. And scrum does this using three main pillars. Uh, transparency, inspection and adaptation. Transparency is basically saying we give visibility into the significant aspects of the process to those responsible for the outcome. Um, this basically means that we, uh, we are very honest. We tell people this is the amount of progress we've made. We've finished just nine of the ten user stories we promised. You know, we've finished nine. So, you know, of course, the two that are that are still, um, uh, left over. Uh, transparency says you don't want to sugarcoat these things. You just want to, uh, provide these measurements to your upper management. Uh, inspection is the principle that says you want to timely check the progress towards the sprint goal and detect undesirable variances. So inspection says we want to regularly check in with our team members to see if there are any challenges that might prevent us from reaching our sprint goal. Right. We want to know when we are running late. We don't want to hide it. We want to know when we are late. Um, and, um, this does not just purely apply to functional progress, but this also means that we want to inspect, um, any kind of deviations from the scrum process that may slow us down. This also involves some kind of, um, uh, interpersonal challenges. Right. So if we, if we, um, work with people who may be, um, I always feel like the best example is some people love to work very, very close to the deadline, and some people are incredibly uncomfortable. The closer things get to the deadline, right. And these two people often have a hard time working together, right? And in scrum, we just make this visible. We identify are there any kind of, um, um, inconsistencies in our expectations and our guarantees? Um, scrum doesn't want to judge people for any of this. Scrum just wants to make it visible. And then, of course, the reason why we want to make it visible is not just but of course, it is also because knowing about it is important. Adaptation, uh, is the third scrum pillar that says we want to adjust the process as soon as possible to minimize any further deviations or issues. So if we identify that we are late, uh, we want to adjust to this. We want to maybe reduce the scope. We maybe want to ask some more experienced developer to help us out, or we want to, um, if we identify that we have a lot of, um, uncertainty about what the customer actually needs. So we want to ask the customer. So we inspect our process in our progress with the purpose to identify things that we can improve. So scrum is uh, I absolutely love scrum because as a as the teaching professor, I am a very strong believer in growth mindset. I believe, uh, every single person is able to grow and, uh, should focus not necessarily on how many skills they have today, but how many skills they can build in the next few weeks or months or years or decades. Uh, scrum really has this growth mindset baked in. So in scrum, you're acknowledging that every person is imperfect and has some flaws and cannot necessarily, uh, predict how long things take. And in scrum, you're just saying, okay, that's totally fine. Um, things can be late, but we want to we want to know about it, and we want to try our best to deal with the situation. That's kind of the idea behind scrum. And, um, the reason why I start with these three things is because these three things are more scrum than the roles and the processes and the artifacts. So people who, um, have a company and then say, we do scrum and they have these titles and they have these meetings, but they don't actually think about these three pillars. They don't really implement the philosophy of scrum. Um, so, um, transparency, many stakeholders need to see how the progress is made. This of course involves management is of course involves the customer, but it also involves the developer who depends on the implementation you are describing. So if you have user stories that depend on each other, of course you want people to know when your user story is like. And then the, um, the process must make those visible. So the way how we do this with some of the work is on the wall. So, uh, which technique have you learned in the agile development practice, uh, lecture that helps us make this work visible to show people. To give people insight into whether we are on time or late. If you've learned anything. I thought this. Oh. It's been a few weeks, so, um, now it's exactly the time to activate your, uh, your recall, right? The longer the time has passed, the more difficult the recall is, and the better the learning. Yes. Stop. Word. Where? Stuff to like. Yes, it's a Kanban board or Kanban board if you want to use it in Japanese pronunciation and Kanban board. So we have, uh, a column of To-Do items. We have a column of in-progress items of in review and then and done. And we want to move these items whenever we start working on an item. And whenever we're done, we move it into done. And then we see, of course, only a small portion of our user stories are done. That's maybe, you know, the bad sign if the sprint is over tomorrow. Um. And the reason why transparency is so important is because inspection doesn't work without transparency. If we don't see the progress, if we don't see the process, then we can inspect it, right? We can only inspect or we can see. Uh, so the goal of scrum is to make all of this visible. So before scrum. And this is may be hard for people to understand, but before scrum, uh, a project manager just had some, uh, some internal dashboard where all of the user stories were like, uh, the tasks were listed and only the project manager knew, uh, whether the project is on time or not. Uh, with scrum, everybody sees it. And only if everybody sees it, everybody can respond to it and then inspection. I means that we want to, um. Uh, frequently look at the goals of scrum, which, of course, means, um, our sprint goal, but it also means the goal to become agile. We want to regularly look at us, and then we want to identify some undesirable, um, variations. So if we somehow believe that we're not on track on our goals that we set for ourselves, then we want to regularly see how far we've deviated from these, um, expectations. And then of course we do inspect inspection so that we can then, uh, change this. Um, and the reason why adaptation is so valuable in scrum is that the whole idea of scrum. So we have self-organizing teams, so we want to give the teams as much power to adjust the process as possible, because that has been shown to be the most effective way to let um, a qualified people get the job done by giving them the autonomy to do what they believe is the right thing to do. Um, and if you just let people inspect, but then don't give them the power to make these changes, well, then the whole the whole point is for nothing, right? So this is why scrum is telling people that when they identify any, um, issues and deviations from the expectations, we give them the mechanisms to adjust this themselves. We give them the power to say, okay, in collaboration with the product owner and the customer, you are able to reduce the scope, or we give people the power to adjust their own internal process and say, okay, well, we just can't get anything done in a 2 to 3 weeks sprint. We need a four week sprint, right? If the scrum team is realizing that a 2 to 3 week sprint doesn't work for them, and they decide that a four week sprint would work much better for them, well, then they should have the power to do that. Um, that's the whole idea behind, um, adaptation. Okay, questions about this so far. Good. And then. Yeah, so we said scrum teams need to be self-organized. They need to be able to make decisions autonomously. Uh, but they also need to be cross-functional. So the whole point of scrum is that every single iteration is producing a valuable increment of work that, um, um, on its own provides value to our customer. Right? So if you think about the invest principle, valuable as the whole point of a product increment, we want the, uh, a single product increment to provide, uh, significant additional value to the customer from what they had before. And, uh, to get this done. This basically means every single scrum team needs people from across the entire stack. So we need our developers not just to be able to do UI, but they also need to be able to do back end. They also need to be able to understand all of the different technology and, uh, need to have expertise and design, implementation and testing because you can't produce a, uh, working increment if you don't know how to effectively test it. So if your organization has specialized test engineers, that basically means every single scrum team should have one of these. Um, what would you think is, uh, a, a good number of people on a scrum team? What would you guess is a good number of people on a scrum team? Yes. Eight. That's a good number. What will you want to say? Four. And what more? Eight than four? Um. So you have two special roles. You have the product owner and the scrum master. Uh, so before you would then only just have two developers, and then you would, you might have like 50% overhead over your actual developer, so. So, uh, the, the rule is the number of people you can feed with two big pizzas. That's, that's, you know, how many people you can have on a scrum team. It's usually like around maybe like. Yeah. So 7 to 9. So eight was a really, really good, uh, really, really good guess. Um. And, uh, yeah. So then we have this three year old. So we have the developers. We have the product owner and we have the Scrum Master. The developers are responsible for creating any aspect of use usable increment. So somebody who is the UI or UX engineer is also a developer. Somebody who writes tests is also a developer. Um, somebody who just writes CSS is the developer, not just the, you know, traditional full stack code writing engineer as a developer, but a database engineer. They're all developers. So whatever special expertise you have when you when your contribution is towards creating a usable increment, then you are a developer. Uh, and again, the scrum team wants to have a good mix of these so that they all together are able to make, uh, um, progress every single sprint. And then the product owner's main goal is to maximize product value. So the product owner, um. Is the person whose responsibility is to make sure that the every single product increment on its own as providing additional value to the user. So the product owner will then end up running out of user stories. We'll talk to the actual customers in an ideal situation, um, and will um. Um, create value. The Scrum Master is promoting the understanding of scrum within the team and the main. A responsibility of the Scrum Master is basically to increase the efficiency of the team. Whenever there is some kind of accidental, um, complexity or something that prevents developers from making the maximum amount of progress. That's what the Scrum Master is in charge of reducing. So the Scrum Master is not somebody who tells the developers this is what you need to do. It's not that kind of manager. The scrum master. Sometimes we describe the Scrum master as a servant leader. So the scrum Master's goal is to understand how can this team become more effective, how what are resources that we need to provide to our team to make sure that they are, um, making good progress? The scrum master doesn't usually write code and really, really small teams. Sometimes the scrum master also writes a little bit of code, but the Scrum Master should definitely have very, very good technical expertise. So you don't want to think of the Scrum Master just as an MBA who has not taken a computer science class. Uh, a scrum master has very, very deep understanding and probably more experience in software development than anybody on the development team because it's really hard to do the job of a scrum master. Well, if you don't really understand all of the technical trade offs very well. So the developers create any aspect of a usable aspect. Uh, this can be full stack developers, UX specialists, test specialists, and they are creating a plan for the sprint. So they, uh, pick the scrum backlog. And, um, so earlier I said the scrum master is in charge of picking the product, the sprint backlog. Now, it says the developers are picking the, um, um, the sprint backlog items. Uh, what what's what's the what's the real truth here? Well, the real truth is that it's a, uh, it's a negotiation and a dialog between them. So the scrum, um, would like to. So the the product owner's responsibility is to make sure that the product backlog is, uh, a valuable increment. But the, uh, product owner is not able to just say, okay, you you need to work on this task. You need to work on that task again. We work on self-organizing teams. People have specific skills. Developers are not all the same. Uh, some of them know some part of the code better. Some of them know some library much better. Some of them are just better at understanding the database technology. And we don't want anybody to assign a work item to a developer that they are not really, um, feeling like they're equipped to handle. So, uh, developers usually try to pick the items themselves, and they are, um, their job is to ensure that whatever they are working on has high quality. Um, so the team picks a definition of done. This is kind of like a rule of, um, it's like a checklist item, a list of, uh, checklist items that, uh, every developer has to check before they define that they have completed a task. And, um, so as a, uh, graduating computer scientist who believes that the first job will be as a developer. Okay. That is. Fewer than I expected. Who? Who believes that their first job will be a product owner? No product owner in this audience. Okay. Who wants to be a Scrum master? Oh. What do the other people want to do? Okay. Who going to do research? Okay, a couple of people. Two people doing research. Okay. And some people may be a bit too tired to raise their hands or will want to. When to do? I don't know, startup or, um, or some other job. Um, so the product owner. So since nobody raised their hand on the product owner, we can maybe move over the product owner a little bit faster. Uh, so the main goal of the product owner is basically. So my metaphor for the, for the product owner is the value navigator. So the product owner is basically charting some map on. Uh, this is how we get to the vision that our customer needs. And, um, they're responsible for maximizing the value created by the team. They're not actually creating the value themselves. They are just making sure that, uh, the developers understand what the customer values and what's important for them. Um, so this means they spend a lot of time, ideally in an ideal scrum team. The product owner spends a lot of time trying to understand what the customer really needs. So they spend a lot of time meeting the real customers or product managers trying to understand the customer needs. And then their goal is basically to translate whatever they've heard and they have understood from the, um, customer who receives the value into terms that the development team then understands. Yes, delegate. This role is more of. It depends on what you define management. So like a product manager? Yes. Um, a personnel manager? Not at all. Not at all. Uh, like, um, these are not people who, um. These are. These are people who are requirements engineers in the in the kind of purist definition of a requirements engineer. They are not leadership in that sense. Um, so they are not in charge of deciding, um, uh, who who's hired. They are not in charge of, of uh, uh, reviewing, um, whether somebody is doing good work or not. Um, I guess what my question is, is like. Anyone with a good. That's a good question. I think this is a good question to talk about on this slide. So software engineering is, uh, the art of um, of building, um, solutions to real world problems in a cost constrained environment. That's software engineering. So software engineering involves multiple different activities. So if we think about software engineering activities from a waterfall model we have requirements elicitation and specification. We have design. We have implementation. We have test and we have deployment. These are the five different activities of software engineering. And uh most of us have probably spent a large portion of our time in implementation and then have started to, um, um, to also do a little bit of design and testing and deployment. But requirements engineering is still one of the most important parts of software engineering. Um, and I believe in, um, in the world in which AI is going to automate more of implementation and more of design and more of testing. Well, what's left? What's left for the the people still to do? And I believe requirements engineering is actually going to be, um, uh, much harder to automate with AI because you have to have real world understanding. You have to talk to people, you have to read between the lines, what they actually mean, not just what they say. So Steve Jobs famously always said, uh, he didn't build products that people asked for. He build products that he knew people actually wanted. Um, uh, Harrison Ford, not Harrison Ford, the guy who was who was, uh, founding Ford. Uh, what was his name? Henry Ford. Exactly. Henry Ford said if I would have asked what people wanted, they would have said faster horses. Um, but of course, he invented the automobile. Um, so the goal of the product owner is, um, is to work on this specific activity of software engineering, of understanding what is really needed and then deciding what are the acceptance criteria that define that we have reached the goal. That's the whole point of the product owner. And I believe that, um, um. You know, if we if we move, if we think about software engineering in like 20 years, um, I think we will think about this. We will not think about any coding. We'll think about this. This is probably what software engineering will be in 20 years. It will just be clear specification of what is needed. And then some super smart AI either with them will then well then implement it for us. I, I believe people who want to consider themselves as long term as, as future career software engineers may want to experiment with, um, activities that the product owner does a little bit more before they they want to define that this is going to be their whole life career, because I think this is, um, whether we like it or not, I think that that's where we're going to move. Um, so they write a lot of user stories and then refine and communicate and define the order of requirements. And, um. Uh, they check whether the acceptance criteria are fulfilled by the solution. And then, uh, the whole goal is to communicate to the team, uh, what the customer needs and be able to be, uh, be able to answer all of the questions that the developers have on whether they've understood the problem space effectively. So this is kind of like a full time, uh, requirements person. You can call. So if you are developer in the scrum team, whenever you are unsure what you should do, call your product owner. They are going to tell you so that their their job is to be on call to answer all of your questions. And, uh, when a lot of organizations started to adopt scrum, they had a lot of challenges with this, because a lot of traditional organizations thought of the product owner as a, um, as a management person, um, as a um, personnel manager. And, um, this is not really what the scrum of what the product owner is supposed to do. Um, so scrum, a product owners can, uh, struggle to identify the root cause of a requirement is they don't really have direct, uh, contact with the customer. So you want to let your Pio talk to the customers directly? Um, and then, uh, often you have organizations with a high vision, with a high level vision as dictated by management. And in this case, the Po doesn't really have the autonomy to implement their vision, which then means they have to implement the vision that they don't fully understand, that they're not really on board. So that's not really good. So you want your Po to have autonomy. Uh, other challenges that pose face is that they often lack the deep domain knowledge because people are usually computer scientists. Um, in many cases, they actually lack the domain background. Um, so the Po is kind of like the most interdisciplinary role on the team because the Po needs to be an expert also of the, uh, domain for which the software is developed. Um, and ideally, ideally, the Po should have some, um, uh, development experience and end user experience because it's going to be really hard for them to understand, um, and communicate to the customer if they don't have the technical knowledge to understand whether what the customer is asking for is actually solvable, and if they don't have the skills to ask the questions that the development team would ask, the process is really, really slow. Right. So this is why the Po is not is not just a management person, because, um, their role is to, um, basically replace the customer in any kind of development decision and to be able to do this. They need to, um, ask the questions that a real developer would ask when they talk to the customer. Um, and this is hard if they don't have any development experience. Um, okay. Questions about the product owner. Yes. So in most scrum teams they will have the actual, you know, job title of product owner. Um, you know, sometimes they don't actually do this, but, um, uh, in most teams they would never be called product. Sometimes, uh, they call themselves just product manager. And then, you know, within their team they are the product owner because not every customer knows what a product owner is, right? So then when they talk to the customer like I'm the product manager, I understand, uh, I'm here in charge of setting the vision of the product. Um, um, but internally, they are they are always I mean, I don't want to say always because a scrum is like this really, really kind of wake framework. Um, but, um, yeah, people also usually copy those. And in the organization, the questions. Yes. So does that mean like. Like, for instance, Theo is just some weird. That's right, that's right. So yeah, in organizations that don't really do scrum, the POA doesn't actually get a line to talk to the customer. The POA just gets meeting notes from high level management and then gets a like five year vision plan that they then have to kind of cut down into smaller visions, uh, and then maybe don't even have the domain knowledge. Right. That that is kind of, you know, zombie scrum. Uh, or sometimes we call this, uh, scrum waterfall, um, or water scrum fall. Um. Okay, let's move on to the Scrum Master. So the Scrum Master again is also not a person in charge. In scrum, nobody really is in charge. Uh, the Scrum master is not the person who says you need to do this. You need to do that. Uh, the Scrum master is not the person who is evaluating who is the best engineer. Uh, that's not what the Scrum Master does. The Scrum master is a coach on a team. So the Scrum Master is basically the person in charge of helping the team develop and and removing all of the. So the textbook definition is remove impediments. Uh, so the scrum master is in charge of identifying what are all of the obstacles that prevent my team from being the best team in the entire world. And then they spend their entire 40 hours a week just removing all of the things they can, um, um, get in the way of their team. So, um, if you were a developer in a scrum team, the scrum US is your best friend, right? That's the person you call and, like, uh, now, uh, they want me to, uh, like, pay for a license. Can you just make sure that we have funds to pay for the license for. I need this new cloud subscription now. Can you please make this happen? And then the scrum master talks to higher level management. And it's like my team would be so much more productive if they would have this super cool, uh, OpenAI subscription and then, um, um, they make it happen or they make it not happen if, if a higher level management doesn't do it. So if you are working in a scrum team, your scrum master is the one who you can let do all of the work that you don't want to do. That's not necessarily technical. Uh, but as a good scrum master is a person who has a very. This is why they're called Scrum master, because they master the process of scrum. Uh, that's what they are really good at. They understand what is the purpose. They understand all of the different pillars. They usually go through a really, really long process of training and certification to, uh, deeply understand all of the different instruments that, uh, can be used to adjust the process. Um, so the, uh, the scrum master, whenever a team has a, has a challenge, whenever a team deviates from the expectations, the scrum master has a set of ideas of how this can be fixed. Um, and it's coaching them on self-management, ensuring that all. Oh, this is, uh, that this this will be my, my favorite role ensures that all meetings are effective, productive and time boxed. If you have a German on your team, there's probably going to be a scrum Master who's going to timebox the meetings, make sure that everything goes off, uh, efficiently and effectively. That's their goal. And then they facilitate meetings. They take meat, they take notes. They facilitate stakeholder communication. Um, and they remove impediments. So whenever there are some blocker, some dependencies on the legal team. Right. Uh, you can't really deploy your product until you have spoken to legal about what is the specific legal disclaimer you put on the project, or you have gotten, uh, approval from the legal team that your system conforms to? I don't know, um, whatever legal framework you're operating in. So the the scrum master is the one who is supposed to basically be the interface person. So within your team, you just say, these are all of my blockers, you forward them to the scrum master, and then the goal is basically, and then you let all of the developers focus on what they do best, which is design, implementation and test of their software systems. Developers are usually not the best at speaking to legal. Developers are not usually the best to speak to the licensing team. Um, so we have somebody who is basically taking all of these tasks that developers are generally not really passionate about and not really enjoying to do. And we give this to somebody who is the real people person, somebody who loves talking to people who, who, who enjoys collaboration, who enjoys communication. That's good. Scrum master. Um, and um, yeah. So their goal is to optimize the team efficiency, kind of act as a buffer. So anything that slows down the team of from outside interference or from inside, that's, uh, the goal of the scrum master to, uh, to reduce. And also the scrum master's goal is to make sure that they kind of have a good view of what is, um, is the team on track? Right? Like, uh, all of our, um, uh, user stories happening and, uh, implemented in a way that is efficient. And also because, um, the Scrum master is first and foremost a highly trained software engineer. Um, think about software design. So, like, internal software quality. Is there any part of our architecture? So you heard the architecture lecture last. Oh, and I remember I need to talk about, um, tactics with you as well. Let's do this in the end of the lecture. Um, I almost forgot that we didn't finish the tactics. Um. Yeah. So the the scrum master usually is highly trained in software architecture and identifies what architectures, uh. Um, supportive of the needs of our team. Um, and yeah, a lot of organizations that do zombie scrum because it's called The Master. They think that's the manager. That's the person in charge, that's the product manager. No, that's not the goal of the product manager. The Pio is in charge. This is also not a project manager. This is not somebody who does personnel management. That's not what a scrum Master is doing. A Scrum Master should not be the superior of anybody in the team. It's really hard for you to be the superior. If your main objective is to just do anything they ask you to do, right? Like that. That doesn't really work well. Uh, so this is why the Scrum Master is not supposed to be somebody who is higher up in any kind of hierarchy. They are more like, uh, somebody with a shield and a sword. So with the shield, they protect the team and with the with the sword, and they fight the battles for the team. Um, that's what the scrum master does. They don't lead the team. Um, but they do enforce some team rules. Um, so, uh, they are in charge of telling the team you we have we have agreed to these rules, and now we should stick to these rules and give people feedback on how they could operate more effectively and bridge the perspective as a moderator. So this is why I kind of like this, this metaphor of the coach. Right? The coach is somebody who is intrinsically motivated by making the team, uh, perform better and is cheering them on. And that's kind of what the, uh, what the Scrum master does in scrum. Okay. Questions about the Scrum Master. Yes me know. Scrum master. You will that that one you'll usually actually see on LinkedIn. They're usually very proud to be called Scrum Masters. And that's the job title. They usually will love to have put them on there on the LinkedIn profile. Yes they have. I mean, usually this grandmaster is somebody who is not less qualified than the team members. Uh, so usually they tend to be, um, uh, further down in the whatever promotion hierarchy the, the organization has. But it's not usually the case that just purely being the scrum master gets you paid more. So just the job title itself doesn't usually come with a higher salary, but they they usually have more responsibilities and more requirements for what makes them effective. Which basically which then leads to, I think, a correlation, but not a causal impact on their salary. Themselves to. Right? So like like, would you trust a basketball coach who has never been on the basketball field? Right. Like. Probably not right. But I guess coaches usually become coaches when once they feel like they speak their own career. Uh, so I think that's probably also sometimes the case of Scrum Master that they are like, okay, now I've developed a lot of code in our field. Like, I don't want to see code anymore. And then they become scrum less. Yes. So Scrum Master, the effectiveness of a Scrum Master is measured by, uh, how, um, how smoothly the team, um, is working. Uh, this is something that is really hard to measure, right? This is why, um, um, like. Yeah. I think measuring the the effectiveness, the external measures for like what defines a good promotion for a scrum master. That's probably quite hard to do. But, um, you know, scrum was, um, invented by people who, who like to work and organizations that don't necessarily have any of these. Um. You know, extrinsic motivators. Um, so that's this wasn't necessarily on the mind of the people who came up with scrum. Um, and um, well, I guess as a scrum master, you can, you can talk about all of the, uh, like, impediments you remove. You can talk about, uh, you can have some kind of scrum measures where you're like, well, now we, uh, we let our team evaluate how effectively they work, and I have contributed to making them work more effectively. Right. And there are things that are like colors. And, you know, people come up with the weirdest metrics and different organizations come up with different metrics. I've not really heard of a really, really good objective measure that you could use to effectively measure the Scrum master, but, um, I think. Yeah, I think a good scrum team is measured in its productive productivity as a whole, not individually. Right. So the whole point of scrum is that the team is larger than the sum of its wholes. So I think the idea to measure the individual progress of a scrum individual or scrum member is very against the whole idea of scrum. You know, organizations will still do it, but this is not really how I believe scrum should be evaluated, because everybody has a role that is supportive for the whole, you know, for the team, rather than doing their own individual work. Um, but, you know, we do. We live in a world in which individual incentives are often, you know, very important for people and for management. Um. But, um, this kind of dynamic between the product owner and the scrum master. Can anybody see a potential conflict between the product owner and the Scrum Master? Okay, so we have these two different roles. Uh, they usually best friends or are they usually, uh, in disagreement with each other? Any thoughts on this? Yes. Why? Of us. The lines are more visible. Right. Yeah. So the the product owner often kind of cares about more features. And the scrum master often cares about higher quality features. Right. Um, any other thoughts on, uh, uh, potential disagreements or, uh, different aspects of the roles between product owner and scrum master? No, I thought I saw some some more hands earlier. Okay. Uh, so the scrum master advocates for internal quality. This is the quality inside the team and their code in the process, right? This is something that isn't immediately available to the customer. Right. So the customer doesn't really care. We have the most productive meetings are in our team. Everybody is happy. They all are in a group chat. They all send each other the cutest memes. Uh, like, that's not something that the that the customer cares about, but that's something that the Scrum master cares about. On the other hand, the product owner wants external quality. You know how many features have a developed home and how, uh, how high as a software performance? How have we made our software any fast, any more reliable? Right. Something that the customer can actually see. Um, so they represent the customer needs while the developers represent the developer needs. So the Scrum master pushes for better processes and better code quality, while the product owner pushes for more features to ensure like an ideal release timeline. And this is also why it is the biggest anti-pattern in scrum to make those to be the same person, right? So the that that a lot of organizations have tried to do this and have miserably failed, right. If you want to make the Scrum master in the product, I want it to be the same person. This does not work because they have often antagonistic goals. And it's really important that both of these goals are supported because, uh, if you don't have clean processes, if you don't care about maintainability, then you will be able you will not be able to deliver value in the future. Right. So, uh, scrum identifies that these are all things that help you in the long term. And these are all things that, uh, keep the lights on. Um, so both of them are important. Um, you have to keep the lights on by satisfying your customer. But you also have to make sure have to make sure that you are you still have lights on and ten years down the road. Um, so this is why these two different roles exist, and this is why they are both important and why they, they should be represented in a scrum team. Yep. Right. Exactly. I don't. Yeah. If you have a. Well, you often you have some disagreements when when you are kind of deviating from your expectations, right? So let's say your team is not fully on track to finish the sprint goal. The product owner is like, we need these features. I promise that to the customer. And then, um, the scrum master, like we if we would do this, we would sacrifice our code quality. We would sacrifice, uh, our developer sustainability. We might have to make them work overtime, which then means that their ability to produce code in the future is reduced. So. So you basically have these kind of disagreements when, whenever, you know, when everybody is on time, like, everybody will be happy, right? But you know, you're not always on time. You're not always in the ideal world. And whenever, um, you are deviating from the ideal world, then these tools will, uh, potentially have discussions with each other, uh, where they, um, where they might not necessarily end up being best friends in the, uh, in the, um, most clear way. Okay. Other questions about this. Yes, Angela. In smaller teams. That is possible. Um, yeah. So the product owner and developer could be, uh, a shared role. The product owner, the scrum master, and the developer could be a shared role. Uh, but, um, in most cases, uh, this is a full time job. In most cases, it's a full time job. So in, like, larger organizations, they are usually going to be a full time jobs. Um, uh, because you usually have larger teams of like eight people. And, you know, if you're a scrum master and you have to remove and impediments for eight people, that's quite a lot. And if you're a product owner and you have to explain to eight people what the features are actually supposed to do when you write, uh, acceptance criteria, and then you plan the next few, uh, product backlog items, that's usually already a full time job. But if you have somehow smaller teams because you're like in a startup organization, then you may let the Scrum master write some code and the product owner write some code. But yeah, you don't you don't want these, these two roles to be unified in one. That that that one. It's not going to work out. Okay. And then you're producing your different scrum artifacts. Um, so remember, the product backlog is the list of all of the, um, backlog items that haven't been implemented yet. They usually come from, uh, customer input, and the sprint backlog is, uh, what developers select for the sprint. And then the product backlog, a product increment is, uh, as a working piece of software that provides value. So the product backlog is basically like an emergent ordered list ordered by priority. Basically saying this is the most important one. This is the least important one. Um, of uh, needs to improve the product. Um, so you will see when you when you look at the official scrum documentation, they never mention any word like code. You can actually build a Lego island with scrum. So when I was an undergrad and, uh, uh, advanced software engineering class, uh, we, we build Lego islands in the discussions, uh, with scrum. Um, and, um, this process is not specifically talking about software, but it was invented in the spirit of developing software. So in most cases, product backlog items are user stories, but they don't have to be. Um, we talked about, um, them also potentially being um, um. Quality improving items. Um. And then you go through product backlog refinement. This is when you take a product backlog item and then you make it more detailed. So usually you will see the product owner to kind of write some abstract user stories or some some features or some um, um, some epics. So you will, you'll see this pyramid of different requirements, the user stories at the bottom, and then you have features and then you have epics and then you have the vision. Um, so this is all what the the product owner usually works on. Um, I think I actually have this in the end. And then, um, the product goal is this long term objective of what, um, we want the, the product to look like, like one year down the road. Uh, we know that we're not going to get there very quickly, but we at least have an idea of where this is going so that, again, we can anticipate change. We can plan for change. So we can only implement information hiding if we know what potential changes might happen. And the product goal helps us with this. Yes. You, uh, incorporate the product backlog items in. The same or as you do those after you. Okay, so the product backlog is basically all of the backlog items. And then when you select the ones for the sprint, that's going to be the sprint backlog. Okay. Yeah. Um, yeah. So the sprint backlog contains a sprint goal. This is basically why are we going to actually work on this sprint? Uh, and that's a set of product backlog items that, uh, is selected and that's usually selected by the developers with feedback from the product owner. So the product owner usually very clearly indicates, uh, this is more important than that. And if we do this and we do that, um, um, if we do this without that, that's not valuable. So they indicate the dependencies and the, um, um. And the value of each of the product backlog items, so that the developers then have a sense of what should be picked first, and then they pick the things the most that they believe they can get done in this time. And this is again why it's really, really important for you to think about the invest principle whenever you write your user stories, right? So invest is helping with this a lot, right? If you can't estimated well, you don't know if you can get into the sprint. If it's not independent, it's going to be hard for you to know which ones you can pick independently. Um, if they are not small, then they don't fit in the sprint. Um, and if they're not valuable, well, they are not actually helping with the whole point of why we do scrum. Then we want to deliver value. Um, so we have the sprint planning meeting, and then we create a coherent and focused set of, um, of backlog items that then produce an increment that we believe is the most high value, um, increment that we can provide within this next sprint. And then they collaborate to negotiate the scope. Okay. And then the increment is a concrete stepping stone towards the product goal. So whenever we have added something to our A product that is um valuable, they we call this a product increment. But we usually think about it more as the end goal of a of a sprint. Uh, so it's additive. Um, it's thoroughly verified. So if we. So once we once we merge it onto master. That's not necessarily when we create a product increment, or at least maybe we should have some rules on when we merge into mass. And these rules are the definition of done. So every single scrum team should come up with their own definition of done. Uh, this is the formal description of the state of the increment so that it meets the quality of our product. So this of course includes that the product owner says it's exactly what we needed. So the product owner should have, uh, accepted the um, uh, acceptance criteria. But this can also say we have documentation. We have a 100% statement coverage. You know, whatever the team believes is their definition of considering a product backlog item done. Um, and usually the team, um, identifies the criteria based on their own subjective ideas of what is high quality and what high quality means in that particular development environment. And for you as a developer, it's important to understand what are these, uh, criteria that define high quality, because you might be in charge of coming up with the definition of done of your team. So you need to think about what what are the what is the right, um, testing and testing adequacy criteria that we should come up with for our team to decide when we consider this done. So definition of done doesn't just mean it's implemented. It means, um, we're not going to touch this anymore unless there's a new reason, a new changing requirement. Um, this is basically what done means. It means, you know, we forget about it until something ends up being wrong. Okay. Questions about this. Okay. And then we have 4 or 5 scrum events. So we have the sprint planning, we have the daily stand up, we have the sprint, the review and the retrospective. Let me move over them a little bit quicker so we can get to. Me. Maybe. Let's take a break. Let's take a let's take a two minute break. Let's take a two minute break. And then we're going to talk about the scrum events. This. Yeah. Uh, we released one homework today. Is our homework ready to release? Oh, I need to look at it again. I'm going to look at it again, and then we're going to release it. Yes. There's going to be one more homework. Yeah. I forgot about, um, that I still have something to do. Um. Um. Okay. Let's. Continue with our five scrum events. So sprint planning, um, initiates the sprint. So the goal of the sprint planning is to, um, identify what's our, uh, product backlog? Uh, so what is the goal of the sprint? And then, you know, estimate all of the user stories and picking the ones, um, that we do. And this is usually done with planning. Um, but, uh, the discussion of a good sprint planning is usually, um, about why is the sprint valuable. So we want to make sure every single developer understands what brings value to our user. Uh, and this is basically led by the product owner basically proposing their own vision. Um, and then say, um, this is what would increase our value. Can you get this done? And then the whole team kind of, uh, works on refining this together. Um, and then after we've basically developed our wish list of things we would like to do. Uh, then, of course, we have to identify what is reasonable, whether we can get done inside of the sprint and, uh, topic to what can be done in the sprint. And this is kind of where, where a planning or other kind of estimation techniques, um, uh, use planning is by far the most common one and of course, the most fun one. Um, but there are also other estimation techniques like infinity, infinity planning, where you take your user stories and you kind of order them and like a total order of their size. And then, uh, you pick the ones that you believe fit. There's a few other, uh, planning techniques. Um, um, and then the question is, how will the chosen work get done? So this is then when you take your user stories and then you split your user stories into individual tasks. So we said a user story is user is the um is a cross-cutting um requirement. Right. So it starts at the UI and goes down to the database. But the database and the UI is usually implemented by other people because some people specialize on back end, some people specialize on front end. And you want the front end developers to implement the front end to the back end developers to implement the back end. So then you take your, um, your user stories and you split them into individual tasks, and then tasks are the ones that will end up being assigned to developers. Um, and you basically do this to make sure that you don't overload, let's say, the back end team or the back end portion of the team of the front end portion of the team, or the security person. Um, with too many tasks. So you want to, uh, check that this all kind of makes sense. Um, and then after the sprint planning, you've created your sprint goal and your sprint backlog, and then you want to revisit, um. Um, on a daily basis, how much progress you've made. Uh, so the daily standup is a short thing. Uh, in the team where the purpose is to inspect progress towards the sprint goal, to see, uh, how we can adjust our sprint backlog. Um, and the this is also called the daily stand up, because everybody should stand up. The reason for everybody to stand up is because once people sit down, they talk about the weekend, they talk about their dog, they talk about, uh, this test or their wife or their, uh, kids or whatever. And you don't want that to happen. You want people to, uh, stay focused because you're taking up the time of every single person in the pen. So, uh, you want to keep it as short as possible? So you basically want to answer these three questions. What did I do yesterday? Um, how do I plan to contribute towards the sprint goal today? Or what do I want to do today and what potential obstacles are in the way? And, um, there are a few anti-patterns of sprint, uh, daily, uh, daily scrums. Uh, one anti-pattern is to speak to the manager to say, oh, I've been so valuable. You know, I've done I've written like a thousand lines of code yesterday. I've written 50 acceptance tests. That's not what, uh, the sprint, uh, daily, Daily scrum is about. The daily scrum is about helping your teammates know what you've gotten done so that they know what they can reuse, what they can build on, how they can connect this to their own. So it's not about the amount of things that you've done to justify the existence of your job to management. But it's, uh, it's the goal of the daily standup is to communicate, um, to your team members what you've gotten done and what you're currently struggling with. And the goal is not necessarily for everybody to, uh, respond to your obstacle. So if you say, uh, um. You know, I've been I've been struggling with this new programing language rust that I've been, um, uh, learning to implement this feature and that the goal is not for everybody to say, oh, you know, here, rust, this is how you can learn rust I know rust common let's talk about rust. But to have these kind of conversations after the daily stand up. So you just say these are potential obstacles in my way. And then people who have an idea to support you will then mention it to you afterwards. And of course, the scrum master's taking note and then can follow up on this. Uh, so these are really, really short, like 5 to 10 minute meetings. You don't want them to be like 20 minutes or 30 minutes. Okay? No, it's been like 40 minutes that I've told you about the scrum. Pillars of transparency, inspection and adaptation. Just exactly the right time for you to start to recall it. What are these three scrum pillars? What is transparency, inspection and adaptation? Who want to tell me about one? Yes. Transparency is. The idea that you always want to be forthcoming in. With your stakeholders about and progress for blockers or. Exactly. The work is on the wall. Everybody sees everything. What is inspection? Yes. Yes. Yes. What? What's being. Exactly. You used the work that's on the wall on and all the data you see to regularly check how much, how well you are on track and then what's adaptation. What is adaptation? Living in. Exactly. Okay. And now that we have recalled this, and now everybody remembers what these three pillars are. How does the Daily Scrum support these three pillars? Talk to your neighbor. Okay. Any thoughts? Any thoughts on this? Where is the focus? So out of these three is the focus more on transparency more on inspection or more on adaptation? Who thinks the focus is more on transparency? Who thinks the focus is more on inspection. Who thinks the focus is more on adaptation? Okay. I always say the focus is more on like the first two. So adaptation of. So the goal of this daily standup is not for everybody to say, okay, now we have to take things out of the scrum backlog. The daily scrum should be very short. So it's more on these two. So it's more on transparency and um and inspection. So you um, you want to make, uh, deviations visible, but you don't necessarily want to spend a lot of time trying to deal with them in that meeting. That's kind of what follow up meeting would be about. Then we have the sprint review. So the sprint review, um, is to inspect the outcome of our um. Um, sprint. So we look at what has been done, and then we check if all of the elements have been, um, uh, consistent with our definition of done. Um, and the main goal is to get feedback from a person who really deeply understands how a value is provided. Who is the person on the scrum team who knows how to provide value? That's a question not for the first two rows, but for all of the other rows. What's the role on the scrum team that's in charge of ensuring that value is always provided? Yes, exactly. Exactly. Okay. Uh, the product owner. So, yeah. So the team presents the results and then ideally, ideally, you have a real customer, somebody who really understands the needs be present. And then you have a live demo. You show them, oh this is the new features we have and then they can actually use it. It's not just a PowerPoint presentation. Oh yeah. Here's a list of features. You know those have checkboxes. Those do not have checkboxes. No. A sprint review is supposed to be life. And it shows it's a working session where, um, you get as much data on how well your increment is performing as possible. You want to identify all of the flaws in the increment that you've just built. The more flaws you find, the better. Right. That's the whole goal. Um, and then the sprint retrospective. Um, that's the meeting, uh, usually just between the the team members. There's no, uh, customer around where they identify what, uh, um, issues in their process that could make them, uh, work more effectively. So this is how can the team increase the quality or the efficiency? Um, so they inspect how the last bend went, uh, with regards to individuals and interactions, processes and tools. Uh, of course, individuals and interactions are more important than the processes and tools, but the process and tools are also important. Uh, and the definition of done. And then they discuss how they can change their process, uh, to run more smoothly in the next sprint. Okay. So if we now think about this. Three elements. Uh, transparency. Inspection. Inspection and adaptation. Where is the focus? Of this activity. Who believes the focus is more on transparency? He believes the focus is more on inspection. Who believes the focus is more on adaptation. Yes. Yeah. So the focus is of course more on adaptation. But this does mean, of course, that the others are also an element of this. Um, and um, yeah, maybe talk to a neighbor about some concrete ideas. Uh, they could come out of a sprint retrospective. Maybe you might actually want to use this as an opportunity to reflect on your own sprint, how your own project is going right now, whether the person sitting next to you is in your team or not. Uh, let's have a chat about how you believe your, uh, team project could could go a little bit more smoothly. I'm going to give you 30s for this. She was also. Okay. Anybody want to want to share something with the class? Uh, as an example of something that could come out of a retrospective? No. Okay. That's fine. That's fine. I would very strongly encourage you. And now and like week nine. So maybe it's a little bit late, but. And better late than never. And I guess we all kind of know that week ten is probably the week with the most code being written. Um, uh, so I would encourage you to have a meeting like this within your team. Um, and to reflect on how has your process gone? I think this is something that, you know, computer scientists are not necessarily it's not the most intuitive one. Right? So we often think about the code, the efficiency, the correctness, the testing. You know, these are the things that we usually care about. But, uh, thinking about, uh, this aspect of software engineering, I think is, uh, is important to make sure that in the real world atmosphere, you know, how to improve the efficiency of your, uh, of your process. Questions on scrum. Yes. I'm here. Okay. Good good good question. Okay. So like right after the sprint ends, you instantly basically have your spend review and then you, uh, whoever joined the sprint review is not part of the of the pigs. Um, so, uh, in scrum we talk about, uh, the picks and the chickens. Um, the pigs. Uh, okay. So the, the let me tell you this funny story. So a pig in a chicken wants to, uh, um, uh, start a restaurant, and they think about how they name it, and then, uh, the chicken, uh, suggests we should call it ham and egg. Ham and egg. And then the the pig is like, no, no, no, we that that doesn't work, because ham means basically my entire body goes into the product. Well, an egg, just something that you lay eggs goes into the product. Uh, and based on this metaphor, we call the team members and scrum the pigs. They are the ones who are whole kind of careers on the line. If the product isn't going to work out the egg, the chickens, uh, the ones who also may have an interest, but they are not, uh, part of the team. So the product owner, the developer and the scrum master, they're all pigs. And then other people are the chickens. So the the sprint review may be joined by some chickens, but, uh, for the sprint retrospective, it's only the pigs talking. Um, and that basically follows the sprint review instantly. And then after you've had your, your sprint retrospective, then you move into the next sprint planning. So um, yeah. So you see scrum has a lot of meetings, right? In scrum you spend a lot of time in meetings, um, like you have one meeting that's probably half a day, and then you have another meeting that's maybe a half a day. And then the next day you have another half day meeting for your sprint planning, and then you have one and a half days out of 2 to 3 weeks are just meetings. Um, some people say scrum is what, what people came up with who just, uh, weren't able to write good code anymore and just wanted to still, uh, uh, have something on their resume where they can say, no, I can do planning polka. Now I can write user stories. This is like maybe more of a joke, but it's, um, it's a lot of meetings. And you see, in extreme programing, none of those are meetings except for the sprint planning. Right? The other ones are not meetings. So different processes make different trade offs between, um, what they optimize for. And um, scrum is a very, very highly optimized this is the whole, uh, foundation of empiricism on providing as much data on how things are going to management so that management identifies what's going right and what's going wrong. And, um, when you think of lean software development or extreme programing, they're like within the agile spectrum on the other end. Right? So they they do not say that you should have any of these meetings. So in lean, you remember there's not going to be any there's not going to be a sprint planning. Right. And in lean you're just going to pick the most important item right. In lean, you're always going to have a global optimization of providing the highest value item at every single point in time, right? Any developer who is ready to take on a new task is always going to pick the highest value task that they are able to make progress towards. In scrum. That's not the case in scrum. We have these these fixed increments of 2 to 3 weeks, and we need to think of a knapsack problem of fitting the highest value items into, uh, this, um, um, 2 to 3 week sprint. Um, and that means we have to put some smaller items, some lower value items. And this means, uh, we have to be in all of these meetings all of the time in which we can't really provide value. Um, and, um, it's really important for you to realize that none of these processes is necessarily right or wrong, but they are, uh, designed for different situations. So whenever you are in a large organization where management wants to have some control, unlike a fortune 500 company that's like publicly listed, and they have to, uh, you know, every single quarter, they have to make a prediction. This is how much revenue we generate. This is how many features we deliver. Right? They live in a legal environment in which every single quarter, they have to make these promises and they have to keep these promises. Right. These are organizations that are just not going to work with any agile process that doesn't have this empiricism part of it. Um, but if you work in a spot in a startup, you don't want to be stuck in a gazillion meetings. You want to make sure that at the end of every single development cycle, you've actually created the. Highest amount of value. So depending on what organization you're in, you have to pick the right process for the right situation. Um, and, uh, you know, as a graduating senior or junior, um, you, uh, maybe not necessarily in the position to have to make these decisions like next week, but you have to, uh, you know, maybe you want to have your own startup, and then you need to not make these decisions. But, uh, at some point in your career, you will probably be in the situation in which you have to be part of the decision on what process we should pick. And yeah, this lecture should give you this, these insights so that you are then able to to make these decisions yourself. But since we talked about these large organizations. So scrum works with a team of like eight people, right? Um, how can we scale scrum to work with 100 people? How can we do this? Do you have any ideas how we can scale scrum to work with not just one team, but. Okay, let's say let's say we one and a half, 100 teams. Okay. We want to have 800 developers. We want to have 100 teams. Okay. Talk to your neighbor. How do we. How do we do this? I'm gonna give you two minutes for this. Us. I think somehow the class is getting a bit quieter, so I assume. You've come to an answer. What would I do? Do you have? Okay. One idea over here. Uh, just. Instead of having like what? Directly needed to all the other teams you have, like middle management that presides over something that. But then. But how do we let our like product owner talk to the customer? How do we how do we like distribute work to these teams? The product owner can still talk to the customers okay. They want to be known in middle management. That goes bad. Okay. So what what does the. What do these like 100 teams then? Then do. Do they all kind of like. Work through the one thing as the manager and the nearest node, and then managers coordinate with each other. Okay. Okay. I think that that that that gets us somewhere. Any any ideas either to build on this or to reframe this or completely new idea? Alison and Alison Elliott. Well, I don't know what to look for. That's a much more powerful developer. So, um, because you're only on like 17, not actual people, team of person, like a lot of people today, but in this sort of hundred group team that we split into. Tomb can be viewed as like a single developer who can write an entire feature. Okay. So like we basically have we have like sprints of sprints and then we have like a we have like a product owner for ten teams and we have a scrum master for ten teams. Um, and um, that gets us very close to, to uh, to safe that I guess is very close to safe. But there's one thing we still need to think about. Like, what about all of these meetings? What are we going to do with all of the meetings? Like you have. Mhm. And then they come back. Okay. Okay, so we send one representative to, like, the big meeting. Yeah. Okay. Okay. You have smaller meetings, and then, uh, what about our, um, our sprints, like, uh, all sprints, kind of like, do they have the same length installed at the same time or. Or, like, are they like, do we get freedom? I think like as long as. Largest level of organization. Working on what they're supposed to do. Mhm. Okay. Any other thoughts on this? Or like, do you see any challenges that we need to know we need to address when we come up with our large scale scrum, which is also like they all have names that basically sound exactly the same, like a large scale scrum is less and then uh, safer scaling agile framework. Any other thoughts or ideas or things we should consider? Yeah. What's your name? Melody. Right? Yeah. Yeah, yeah. So, so whenever we have a lot of themes, we need to have all of these processes like 100% synchronized. And we call this this is no joke. We call this the agile release train. So we basically have multiple teams that work over multiple sprints that start at the same time. So we have like multiple wagons of teams that are all on one train. And then the whole train moves synchronously. This this is kind of like how this how this metaphor is supposed to work. Um, and um, yeah. So the whole idea is basically kind of like what we described. So most of the ideas we've just described kind of we see this in the scaling agile framework and say this is a very management heavy process framework that works well for large traditional organizations that need to have predictability and structure. And then, uh, the. Uh, initial release. Train is like a team of teams. So instead of one scrum team, you have a group of many teams working together on a single program. Um, and then the train departs the station on a reliable schedule. And if a user story somehow missed the train, it didn't get on the previous agile release train. So we don't call this sprint anymore. So the new name of sprint on the higher level is than the agile release train the art. So the user story has missed the train. Well then it will be on the next train. Uh, on the next spread, um, and they are synchronized. So all teams on a train, uh, start and end the sprint at the same time. And they can integrate, they work together. So almost all nontraditional software companies, uh, that you will see on like, uh, the S&P 500 or fortune 500 list, they all do this Cisco, Oracle, Dell, Capital One, American Express, uh, CVS, Lockheed Martin, John Deere, Porsche. Like think of a big company that has some software that they built themselves that probably gone into, um, scaling agile. Um, and um, yeah. So you basically have your instead of the product increment, you have your program increment the Pi. Um, that's basically multiple, um, agile release trains put together. Um, like I guess one agile release train, but then agile release train consists of, of multiple sprints. Um, so the sprint is usually two weeks. A Pi is typically like, uh, 8 to 12 weeks. Uh, so that kind of lines up. That's not by coincidence with about a quarter. Right. Because all of these big companies, they all plan in quarters. So they they are agile release trains and then also, um, uh, on a quarterly schedule usually. And you want to deliver a significant chunk of value by the end of the quarter. And then you have your Pi planning meeting. And instead of sending just one person no, no, no, in scaling agile framework, you send literally every single person. They all participate in this Pi planning meeting. Um, there's a massive two day planning session everyone. So all 100 plus people meet face to face or virtually and then they, you know, group together and then they have some discussions together. And then the output is that at the end, every team has identified dependencies, visualize risks, and committed to a set of objectives, uh, that they can then internally implement using the individual sprints. That's the whole goal. And then of course, we have all of our scrum roles on the art level. So instead of a scrum master on the, uh, art level, we have the release train engineer. The release train engineer. It's kind of like the chief scrum master. The facilitates the train and removes the major blockers. And then the product owner on the art level is the product management that owns the program backlog, not the product backlog. The program backlog defines features. And then uh, uh, epics and the vision. And the dev team has, uh, a system architect. Um, the system architect provides high level technical guidance to make sure that the architecture of all of the individual product increments are then, um, working well together. Uh, and keeps track of all of the, uh, timing and all of the, you know, high level, um, um, um, quality constraints. And then you have a scrum of scrums where all of your Scrum Masters meet, and they all discuss what kind of, um, impediments are happening there. They usually send some ambassador, some team lead. Um, and that usually happens 2 to 3 times a week. Uh, you can really adjust. So sometimes the issue here is that all of your teams are on different time zones. So sometimes it's hard to find one time where every single team can send the scrum master. So this is sometimes a challenge where you need to then again adjust your process. Um, and then you have the product owner think where all of the product owners meet and they discuss the high level requirements for the next part, and then they discuss the user stories and their features and their epics. So an epic consists of multiple features. One feature consists of multiple epics. Um. And they basically discuss these high level features. Um, and safety is. So the pros, of course, is that it works in large organizations. So you can you can get a really, really large group of people moving in the same direction. That's kind of what a train does, right? Um, and you have high predictability. Um, so a lot of, um, companies that need this for their quarterly schedule, they have to do this. They don't really have a choice. Uh, the cons is it's very complex. So you have to have all of these meetings. You have, like, hundreds of people coming together and your Pi planning meeting, and sometimes it's jokingly called the Water Scrum four, because now this actually sounds like a waterfall process because it's very bureaucratic, it's less agile. We don't really give our team members their own flexibility anymore. Suddenly they're not self-organized anymore. Um, now we give them these high level requirements. We give them, uh, this, uh, this, uh, sprint length. We have to tell them when they have to start and end and, um, we add these additional roles that then somehow have an impact on this team, even though they're not supposed to, because every team is self organized. So we are moving away from the traditional ideas of scrum. It's hard to see all of the, uh, three scrum pillars in um, and safe, but, um, you know, you have to make a trade off, right? You have to make a trade off. You can you can do scrum and then also, uh, make sure that you have a quarterly schedule. And whenever you work in these really big organizations, uh, of course you have to make a note on Conway's Law. Who has heard of Conway's law? You've all made it here without hurting like conduits. Well, are you fortunate? You know, you learn about Conway's law. It's one of the most interesting observations up there. Was written by, um, Melvin Conway, um, in the 1970s. I don't remember the date. 1968, 1968. Uh, it says any organization that designs a system defined broadly. Uh, like we think about software systems, reproduce the design with structure is a copy of the organization's communication structure. So if you have. Two teams that work together to build a, uh, analysis pipeline. They will inevitably come up with a two phase analysis approach. One team will have phase one. The other team will have phase two. If you have a five team analysis approach, well, you will inevitably come up with a five phase analysis pipeline. Um, so this is this has been observed by Melvin Conway in the 1968. And then it was also validated many, many times empirically, that it's actually true. The way how people talk to each other is the way how they build software. And because many organizations want to think about the architecture first, what they usually do is that they after they've come up with the architecture, they then design the teams to be structured in a way that then is a mirror of the architecture that they've come up with. If you don't do this, what you end up with instead with an architecture that's a mirror of your communication. So the causality can go both ways. If you manage it well, it goes in the direction that you want it. If you don't, uh, then it often does not end up the way that you wanted to work out. Um, and the way how most professional teams are handling Conway's law, um, especially in agile teams, is using microservice architectures as head of microservice architectures. Now, I hope a lot of hands go up. Okay. Not a lot of hands go up. This tells me that I should probably have like a half lecture on microservices, because I think if you graduate and you have not heard of microservices, um, I want you to have heard of microservices and I can't do it in five minutes. But the idea of microservices is that every single team develops a part of the architecture that is deployed individually. So they are not just getting their own module, they're also getting their own component. And now you have to remember what the difference between component and module is. What's the difference between component and module. Who remembers what? Tuesday. Remember the difference between component and module. Oh, you should review your lectures. You should review your lectures. You should remember what you've learned in the earlier lectures. And don't wait until the final. Because if you just cram, you will just forget the next week. Okay. Nobody remembers the difference between them. Yes. Thank you. It's larger than life. Oh. Not necessarily. Not necessarily. Okay. Um. Okay. A module is a, uh, group of code. It's something you see in your ID. It's like a class. It's a package. It's a it's some unit of code on whatever level of unit you're talking about. A module can be a class. A method package can exist at any level of scale. A component is a unit of deployment. So a component is an individually deployable runtime unit something you execute. And in microservice architectures, what you're seeing is that every single team has their own component. So they don't just work on their own module, they work on a unit that can then be individually deployed. And this is very important for scalability because if you develop individually deployable units then you can also scale them individually. This means if you have a if you have a lot of components that talk to each other and then there's one is the bottleneck. You just duplicated ten times more than the others. And then you have ten times as many instances of that part. That is the bottleneck. Okay. Well we'll talk about microservices maybe next week in a bit more detail. I am very surprised that not everybody's hand goes up when hearing about microservices. But we'll fix this. We'll fix this. We'll teach you what microservices are. Um. And then we also. Finish this. And now you're going to listen to the case study of Lockheed Martin. Somehow they show up in my lectures all the time. Um, most of the time, because they're messed up. Um, in this lecture, they show up because they have used safe to develop the F-16 fighter jet. That's a, um, very high safety critical system, right? Has incredibly important performance constraints, has incredibly high safety constraints. Okay, now imagine you want to build a fighter jet. Using scrum or scale scrum. How are you going to do this? What challenges are you likely to encounter when adopting safe with such a safety critical embedded systems? What benefits of agile might you miss out on? This is the most important question when you can answer this question. You will. You'll, um, I'm going to give you a plug in already. You don't have to show up to the final. I'm kidding, I'm kidding, I'm kidding. But you can try. It's just a question. Okay. Like safety critical systems like this. Yes. That's right. That's what I said. But I guess they didn't listen to me. Yeah, they didn't listen to me. Yeah. So then they say that. Yes. Yes, but just send. The professor said it shouldn't happen. Usually you want to think of a better answer than that. You want to think of a better end? Just. I mean, don't just trust your professor, right? Like, think about the reason why the professor says that safety critical systems are generally not as agile as others. Okay. Fill out the exit tickets or the or. You're all waiting for the password. What is the password? Um. Is it empiricism? The transparency? No it's not. I mean, look up the password. Um. Oops. Have done this in the break. Comparisons. Scrum. Oh, agile. Just agile, of course. Okay. And then I'm going to see you on Tuesday. And, um, when you fill out the exit ticket, you will actually get the answer to this question. And there's a wonderful one hour lecture by the person who was in charge of running this agile release train. Um, talking about her experience with this, that I very strongly recommend you to watch because it's really interesting. It's really interesting. Uh, whenever I read this, I feel like that's that's where the terms what the scrum for comes from. So they they came up with, um, four different increments. Requirements analysis was the first program increment. Design. What's the second program in command and implementation? One. What's the third program in command and implementation? What's the last program in command? This. This maybe tells you how scrum this actually was.