[Auto-generated transcript. Edits may have been applied for clarity.] Hello. Hello, hello. This is on. No, this is not on. It's not on. Yes, it is on. It is on. How is everyone doing? Who is happy with their midterm grade? Nobody. Well, you have a final. Well, you can fix this. But I think the final will be a bit harder. Huh? You know the final will be harder. I'm not saying I make it harder. I'm saying it will be harder. I mean, the middle was easy, right? Well, it's the hardest part of the mid-tum. That's all easy. But I guess you may not necessarily have to do logic proofs, because I believe we will not be teaching you hologic this quarter. So I guess the. But somehow I don't know why how logic proof was actually not the worst question on the final maybe. I don't know what was going on there. Um, but something weird was going on there. Okay, so today we will be talking about a topic that is really taught in undergraduate programs, but I think will be one of the most interesting things for anybody who wants to build real systems. Who is here to build real systems? One student 2345666. Students want to build real systems. The other ones all. The other ones are here to do. Academic research and become professors, which I think is even more fun than building VR systems. So I hope many of you are aspiring to this goal. Uh, it's harder, but it is more fun. Because you get to do fun stuff like teaching the next generation. Okay. I mean, activate the screen recording and then we will start in progress. Okay. Let me tell you a story. Who here has booked a flight? On the internet. Okay. Bob. Wants to go on a vacation and he wants to do exactly that. Bob wants to book a flight. So Bob goes on some flight portal and types in his destination, and then Bob sees a lot of flights, and then he updates his flight, and then he goes to the airport. But unfortunately, Bob's, um, flight got canceled. Um, but he goes to a travel agent at the airport, and then the travel agent is finding alternatives for him. And then they do find an alternative, but on a different airline, not the same airline. The same airline does not have, uh, a flight. But then Bob goes on this alternative flight with a different airline. Okay, let's make sense so far. Good. Oops. And then Bob is happy. Okay, end of story. And a story. Who is incredibly impressed by this story? Wow. Okay. I think everybody should be incredibly impressed. This has worked out the way it has because this is an incredibly difficult problem. Why is this a difficult problem? What makes this technically difficult? From a software engineering perspective. Talk to a neighbor. Oops. Okay. What makes this difficult from a software engineering perspective? Elliot sighs. You need to index all the flights and what's, uh, what's so, so, so difficult about that specific situation. And then Bob has encountered where Bob's flight was canceled, and then he was rebooked on a different airline. Anything difficult about this? Yes. David. Or did David or Daniel? David. David. Okay. Um, the fact that, like, he was able to. I mean, the fact that he's actually able to. Both on the client, like on his own website. You for. Right. So so first of all, it's kind of a miracle that he could just go to one single place where all of the flights were shown, right. That's kind of a miracle. And then even more of a miracle. And then he got rebooked on a flight with a different airline. Because for this to work, um, all of the airline systems have to somehow be able to talk to each other, right? So the, uh, so Bob first sees hundreds of these flights from hundreds of different airlines, and then he got automatically rebooked. Why is this just. Oh, I didn't turn it on. I didn't plug it in. I said auto power. Mm. And it's happening here. Why is software not working? Can someone please make software work? This is hardware. Maybe it's a hardware problem. Maybe it is a software, and maybe it's a hardware software co-design problem. Okay. Uh. Okay. Now it's working. So it seems like it was not a pure hardware problem. Um, yeah. So there needs to be some system, um, that allows these different airline systems and booking systems to end, to operate with each other. Has anybody heard of this system that does this? It is one of the oldest IT systems ever. It is called a global distribution system. And there are a couple of them. There are three different ones. Amadeus that is um, Travelport. And then there is. One third one. And what these systems do is that they create an interface where all of the booking systems and all of the airline systems can talk to each other. Um, and this system. Fun fact the invention of this system is closer to the Brother Wright's first flight, then to today's state. So by the time that system was invented, flights as a like like the planes were as new as that system is to us to date. Um, and, uh, that system is not supported by almost all airlines. And I say almost all airlines, because there is one airline that you cannot actually see the price when you go on Google flights. Google flights is one of these systems that uses GDS. Which airline can you not see the price on Google flights? Who has seen this? I know that I'm talking about. Southwest? Yes. We just to say. Okay. You know United. United uses cdfs. Uh, southwest does not use GDS for a reason that we will see later. And this is why. None of those things work with southwest, which is kind of funny. Okay. Yeah. So this is closer to the original flight. And this is a case study, a real case study of the college that is called interoperability. So interoperability is the degree to which two or more systems or components can usefully exchange meaningful information in a particular context. So the emphasis here is you have multiple systems. So interoperability is the only quality you're learning in this class that does not exist in isolation. We can ask you how available, how performant, how modifiable, how much memory consumption your application has. And we just tell you to evaluate your application. Interoperability is a quality you cannot evaluate on a single system. It's always say at least a pair of systems or a set of systems for which you need to evaluate interoperability. And it's about meaningfully exchanging, um, information. And it's not just about, you know, sending bits and bytes from one place to another that's, you know, a different kind of problem. Interoperability is about these systems also being able to correctly interpret these, uh, data streams and then make use of them. Why should you care about interoperability? Why is this probably one of the most useful lectures in this class? Yes, I guess like. Information and plays a little bit of a role here. Um, but not quite. Yes. Billions of dollars doing it right. Like no system nowadays is just designed as an island is an. Seems like. Exactly, exactly. Your system would be maybe more useful if it's actually using one of the existing systems. So your system kind of phrasing it differently. Your system is not an island. Your system exists in a West space with email services. Your system may want to send you who wants to send emails in the project system? Okay. One teen, apparently. Um. You do not want to implement this yourself. You want to use an existing email service that you send your data to, and then they send these emails. Uh, you may want to use single sign on where users are able to sign in with their, let's say, Google account or Microsoft account or a GitHub account or whatever. Who is using who is implementing a feature like this in this system? Okay. Seems like, um, what teams and one of the teams apparently does both. So you don't you do not want to necessarily implement, um, you know, all of this yourself. You need to interface with the existing accounts. If you want to, let's say share your post to social media. That is a feature that exists very often on mobile apps. What if you need to develop a system that also interacts with a mobile app? So a lot of systems nowadays, you know, exist as web apps, as desktop apps, and also as mobile apps. For example, um, when you're using the cloud code, for example, there's also a mobile app that you can use where you can interface with the same system, and they all have to talk to the same backend. Right. So there there are different kinds of interoperability scenarios. And in the real world, I can't think of a single system that does not have to care about interoperability and would like to hire you. So, uh, interoperability lets us use existing services. So instead of implementing functionality yourself, you are basically using existing services for authentication, cloud storage, payment services. This is a big one, right? You don't want to implement like a payment, uh, system yourself. You want to use an existing service for this content delivery analytics. How is this different from views? How is this different from reusing a library? Yes. Well actually the work here. So. Asking about, uh, how does this manifest itself in your system? That's right. Uh, so when you when you call an API, you call a different runtime system and reuse your, your Im including the implementation that's source code. And then you package the, the code that you have reused as part of your application. So you have more control over the, um, the package and the code. Um, at least you will know when they change. Uh, with interoperability, this is a much, much harder problem because, um, the API you are using may change at any point in time. So if you're using the OpenAPI OpenAI API to do some AI tasks. Um, they may change at any time. And I think that's probably, I guess, maybe an internal mobility case. Uh, then I should probably add to the next version of this slide. Then of course, nowadays everybody wants to use some kind of AI service. And that's also interoperability. It's exactly the same thing. Like you're sending data to an external service and, uh, using it. Um. Also, this can improve your usability. So users love transferring the data from another system to your system. This is what users absolutely love. They love using some kind of like data export and then importing this data into your application. That's also interoperability. This is especially important for medical systems where this is kind of slowly becoming a um, very slowly, but it is kind of starting to become a little bit of a standard where you can just not work today. Okay. Also, some of your systems may have to support different platforms. And then you have to implement the same system on multiple platforms. They then need to exchange data. So if you have let's say mobile apps, if you have IoT systems then need to support different uh, platforms, microservices, they all like these are a little bit simpler because in these cases you are in charge of both of the ends of the communication. You need to make your own subsystems be able to interoperate with each other instead of into operating with a third party application. But even if you're doing this, you can apply exactly the same techniques, uh, from this lecture. So the techniques don't necessarily change that much. Uh, from, um, um, talking to your own subsystem or talking to a different system. Okay, so how does a GDS implement this? What do you think? What makes GDS interoperable. Talk to your neighbor. Maybe invent a design principle. I think that's the next slide. Yes, invent a design principle like the information hiding principle or whatever. A design principle that lets systems talk to each other. So you invent this design principle, and then we'll follow this design principle and designing a new system. This is a little bit difficult. So let's give you a one minute. Let's give you one minute. Yes. Yeah. This is similar to like an adapter. Well, we'll see in five minutes. Okay. Any suggestions for design principles? Not necessarily concrete solutions, but I guess maybe design principles and solutions are quite similar. Yeah. Okay. Uh, Elliot, uh, we're thinking of more of a. They're all different. The house. Okay. I think that's very close. Will, would you. What do you want me to say? Agreed upon contract. Booking systems and airlines that would be like. A specific API interface that they'd agree not to change, and some agree. Always have that are. Okay. Okay, so we all kind of agree that we define some interface that then implemented by all of the systems. Right. So GDS comes up with some interface for let's say passenger data for flight booking systems. And then uh yeah. So the design principle, um, we have come up with this, basically this. So we create a shared interface or a shared data format. Um, when we first start, let's say listing all of the data we need. So this is kind of how we implement this. We start listing all of the data we need that needs to be exchanged. And then we define the interface format. And then we implement some kind of serialization and deserialization on all of the ends. Right. That's kind of what Will wanted to say. Right. Um, and your solution, does this also kind of fit your solution? Okay. Very cool. So this is the design. Anything else you need to do. Anything else? Anything else. Okay. Okay, well, we'll see how this goes. We'll see how this goes. Um, so we built some abstractions. So we create some, let's say platform a language independent interfaces. This is very important. So you and you, you learn that you don't need. You should not expose any implementation details. So this interface should be so abstract that any system can implement this. No matter how they work internally. And they should be language and platform independent. So the format should support all programing languages, operating systems and devices because they may be implemented in different programing languages. Right. So the one system may be implemented in Python, the other one in C plus plus the other one would still be implemented in COBOL because it wasn't maintained since 1920 or whatever. Um, yeah, I guess 1920. We didn't even have programing languages, but we have sort of Rest APIs. I hope everybody is kind of implementing this for the systems. Uh, because Rest is nowadays basically the standard for kind of meta interfaces. So Rest stands for representational state Transfer. And it's a stateless, uh, web protocol. Um, uh, where the state stateless basically means the server does not maintain any state of the client, and it only, uh, implements for different action verbs the post http post messages for creating a resource, get messages for reading a resource, put messages for updating a resource, and delete messages for deleting a resource. And, and they also, uh, quite a few, um, other conventions. And for you of your generation, this may not necessarily sound like a big invention, but there was a time before rest interfaces where the web was a wild West, where everybody was coming up with their own URL patterns and their own semantics of these different, uh, Http calls. Um, and after the introduction of Rest APIs people have agreed upon, this is how you structure your URLs. This is the semantics that you use for creating a resource, getting a resource, changing a resource. Um, and then the resources themselves are usually specified um, with XML files, Yaml files, Json files, email files, whatever. Um, and then you also have a um specification of the specific format as well. So uh, for the GDS API this will look like this. So we, we say we can uh get flights by posting to the get Flights API. Why are we posting to the Get Flights API. Why are we not getting from the Get Flights API? Yes. We are creating a request. Exactly. Your request comes with a large set of parameters that are then creating a request that is then executed on the server side. Um, and then um, we have, let's say here we have a, uh, a flight that we want to book from LAX to Pittsburgh. Let's say somebody wants to fly to Pittsburgh. Um, and then they get some response back. So we have the Http response codes. We have a description of the different, uh, parameters. And there are a few other alternatives that are used instead of rest. Rpcs for example remote procedure calls. They are more powerful. They can also um, uh, have uh functions and attributes beyond just Crud. So Crud as create, uh. What does it all stand for? Request. Update. Delete. Request. Oh yeah. Create. Request. Update. Delete. Um, it can also be used for complex calculations. Um, so if you are dealing with applications that need to exchange much more transactional data, for example, uh, a remote procedure, costs may be better. There's also Soap. This is not what you use to wash yourself, but it's a stateful protocol for more complex data. So it's kind of, uh, it's an XML based, uh, protocol that is also having some security, uh, functionality, some error handling, and it's very widely used in enterprise data. So most of the APIs that you see, like GDS, they have a Rest API. And they also have a Soap API. And then the soap API. Um, you know, you have to use the soap API in a different way, but it's um, yeah, uh, it comes with its own trade offs. And then as GraphQL, that's kind of, uh, a more modern standard of server side schema definitions. Um, they also have some data structure conformance. It's good for large, complex and integrated data sources that kind of uses, uh, Json. So Rest is not the only one. Rest is by far the most common one. But Soap is also incredibly common. RPC is very, very useful when you are creating applications with multiple application with multiple, uh, components and then need to talk to each other. So this is maybe more, um, within an organization, offices are more common. And then GraphQL is also, uh, rising in popularity. Uh, and then you can specify your schema. Um, structurally, um, either as Json or Yaml schemas where you describe the structure of the document. Right. This is really, really useful. So you want to basically we said we unit to specify your interface. And the way how you do this is with a schema file. Now you can then allow you to automatically verify that the user has provided a request that follows the schema. So this can look like this. So this is an example of a Json schema where you say the type is string. And then who remembers the regex from 35 ele. All of a sudden. What does this rhetoric say? It starts with let us see and then comes. Okay. You may want to study your regex. Yes. Uh. Exactly. So the input consists of exactly three uppercase letters and nothing else. So these are anchors. This is the start of the string. This is the end of the string. This is uppercase letters log capital A to capital Z. And this means exactly three of those. Um, and uh yeah. Then you can, uh, you can have some constraints on the values. So you can, for example, say the price should be minimum zero. So a negative price does not exist in our format. Um, and we can have constraints on the document structure. So we can say we need a departure airport code and we need a price. These are required. The other ones may not necessarily be required. Okay, this is makes sense. If you are using. Yes. I mean, you can. You can, uh, use types that are basically, like, anything, right? So you can you can. Where you can you can validate the parts of the schema that is part of the contract. And then you can have some parts of the schema that are not part of the contract, where you say you deliberately want to have some kind of unstructured data. Um, and then you are in probability doesn't guarantee that this part is uh, is transfer correctly because that, you know, maybe let's say like an add on or something like this. Yeah. To clarify, uh, uh, you. You don't know about the school until they like. So usually, uh, a good, uh, uh, a best practice is to publish your schema whenever you define your own API. Um, and then you put this on your website, or you find your instrument some way where developers can download this, and then they can see the schema, they can download this file, they can check their own requests. Um, and um, um, everything will be fine. Um. But, uh. Yeah. The best way for you to do this when you are offering an API is to actually check that these requests follow these schemas, because otherwise, you know, they may cause damage to your system. If they are, let's say overprice a negative price. If you don't check the negative price and you just interpret that this is, you know, changing the balance, then suddenly you have given the customer data, uh, you have given the customer some, some, uh, some money somehow. Right? That that's not necessarily a good solution. I mean, you you should you should check the price against your database anyways. But, um. Yeah. Okay. Now let's look at a system that has basically followed exactly the design principle that we've come up with. So our design principle was we need to define a data format or interface. And this was a really nice system the Moss Climate Orbiter. I was one of the nice NASA systems that they built to, um, um, study the climate on Mars, because if you study the climate of Mars, it's kind of cool. Um, so they built, um, their own flight system. So JPL here around the corner in Pasadena built the flight software system, and then the ground system that was built by a US based subcontractor by Lockheed Martin was sort of Lockheed Martin. Okay, good. People know companies. That's that's interesting. Okay. So that command interface was defined with a schema, basically. Um, and then something weird happened. So they stuck to the design principle we came up with, but they did not anticipate, uh, that Lockheed Martin uses different units. The NASA, NASA always uses as a units because NASA is an international organization that does actual research where as units, uh, more important than US customary units. Lockheed Martin is working with the US government and with, you know, just people in the US. Uh, by default uses US customary units. So they sent their commands and pound force, and then the um, flight system was interpreting those as Newtons. That's off by a factor of 3.6 or something like this. Uh, so that that did result in the loss of the spacecraft. Um, and that cost, um, the US taxpayer $193 million. Um, so, um, yeah, we did not have semantic intelligibility. We only had syntactic interpretability. So, man, that kind of sucks. The design principle we came up with, we spent, like, 30s coming up with the design principle. Somehow the one doesn't work. Okay, let's iterate on this. Let's come up with a an extension of our design principle. Um, that would have avoided the $193 million, um, failure. Talk to your neighbor. Like it's. That's. This wouldn't have worked. Okay. Any suggestions? Well. Put it. Read me. Okay. What does it mean? Like. Describe how. And you are. What? What should I what should I put in this kind of read me. Well, for example, if there are specific like values that need to be of specific units. There should be that should be exposed to the. Sure. That sounds good. Any other ideas or extensions of this idea? Yes, I. Just. Like this. You're also going. Yes, that's exactly the solution. We need to document this semantics as well, not just the syntax. So if we say this element should represent a plant, how is anybody supposed to know if we're talking about this big factory thing or this beautiful pot that we put in our window? Nobody is. Nobody will know. Nobody will know. So the data that is exchanged between the systems must also be interpreted the same way. Well. Okay. Um. And the way how we do this is by describing, uh, all of the, let's say, preconditions, all of the meaning of the data, the side effects. Uh, so we want to document the interfaces. What units are implied? That's really important. Does the price include tax? Right. So in the US we don't often include the tax because that has to somehow be calculated based on the states or whatever. Um, so I'm not really sure how this works. But uh, also it's your date and month day year or and day month year. So I think here in the US we mostly do this right. Um, in Europe we mostly do this. Um, also, when we built robotic systems, uh, what coordinate system is the reference frame? Is it the world frame? Is it a different frame? Um, also, you want to create a shared dictionary of items. Um, if the user is requesting a donut. But inside of your system, you only have donuts. Uh, then you may say resource not found. You have to tell people what kind of donut uh, you have. Also, when you sell tea to me, uh, this is my favorite t. Uh, it's done in to, uh, and in some parts of China, they spell it with different characters. Uh, I think this is the. This is the charger spelling, and this is the Beijing spelling. Um, uh, you also should write some integration tests for your, uh, system. By the way, if you want to drink some dance song, let me know. I have some done some analysis. Um, anyways, um, yeah. So your interface specification should of course include the, uh, semantic specification. Um, so you document the format, the actions that should be performed, the parameters and the output. That's kind of what we already discussed. And our first design principle. But then we also need and this is more important because this is this is where, you know, we saved $193 million, uh, by describing the meaning of the resource, the meaning of the action. What does this action actually doing to our system, to our data? What are the side effects? How, uh, states changed? How? Um. Um, uh, yeah. What what has happened with the resource or the environment? That's very important. Use of usage restrictions. Who can perform this operation? Do you need to be logged in? Do you need to be a premium user? Do you need to have a special, uh, access permissions? Do we need to, um, uh, have performed a specific operation before? Error handling. That's very important. What kinds of errors can happen? Um, so if you use an API, there can be a lot of errors. And of course, the API needs to tell you what kinds of errors can happen and what are the meaning of these different errors. Is this error saying that the resource is unavailable? Is this error saying that the um resources is not well-structured? So Http has all of these error codes already built in, but in many cases you want to use different error codes besides the ones that Http uses. And if you're not using Rest, then of course you can really easily use Http error codes. Also. This is very important. Include some examples. These are. Um. This is how you should use the API. This is not how you should use the API. Um, and the reason why I think this will become more and more important is because of MCP who has heard of MCP. Okay. MCP is the model context protocol. That's kind of like the rest API of AI agents. Um, and MCP kind of works like this, right? So you give your, um, you give your agents, uh, a semantic view. You tell your agents, these are the two calls you can make, and then you include all of this semantic view for all of the two calls that you are. Um, that your agents can make while MCP. Um, and then you, um, in the past, you wrote these semantic views for humans to understand what is happening. Now, you will be writing these specifications for AI to understand it, which means your bar for, um, um, writing it in a comprehensive and non ambiguous way is even higher because I guess I know fewer things because that's why you still have a job. Um, yeah. So thinking about APIs is not necessarily just between code, but now also between agents. Um, so these the interoperability will I think become more important when the entire internet will be replaced by mQTT agents, which may happen at some point during your career. Um, that we will not necessarily be into operating with the internet via Http, but maybe MCP. And that would be a potential future. Um, and yeah, for example, then you, you specify your create bookings API like this. What do you say? There's a Post request where we have the flight number with string, the date with date time, the seat with string and the type with the payment reference and the traveler number. Right. This is implementing the design principle we just came up with. Right. Or is there something missing? Anything missing? So sufficient. We need to add more. Like. Yes, we need this. And then too, can we add some semantics? So what? Semantics too. We add for the flight number. How can we most precisely specify the semantics of the flight number? Yes, David. Regex. Okay. But what? Flight number? Every flight can have multiple flight numbers. You may have seen this when you at the airport, and then you're waiting for your flight. And then it says something like DL 974. And then also, um, oh, I don't know who Delta is in cooperation with, but uh, a different kind of code sharing partners will use different flight numbers. So we may want to we might want to specify whether this is the, um, flight number of the operating airline or the selling airline. Right. A different airline can sell you the ticket then the airline operating the flight. So you have to say it should be the operating airline. Um, otherwise people won't know if that is required or if also code sharing partner flight numbers are also allowed. So you want to you want to be very specific dates time. What should we how should we document date time. Any suggestion for a semantic description of date time? Yes, we can use a 24 hour, a 24 hour clock. Okay. Of what? Uh. Okay, that that's still also syntax, but what is the meaning of the state? Any ideas what the meaning? Of the state? Maybe. Yes. Uh, okay. Yes. So the question is, is this the time that a the flight departs or when the flight arrives? Right. They can be different. And for really long flights that can actually be like a whole day different. Yes, Nathan. You also have to think about which time zone. Exactly. We have to think about the time zone. Is this the time zone where we currently are asked to use a booking, the flight, or is this the time zone of the departing airport, which could be different, right? If we book a flight to Pittsburgh and then we booked the flight back from Pittsburgh, that would be a different time zone. So it's the date of the departing flight according to the time zone of the departure airport. Now, we have really clearly specified what the meaning of this date US seat. What may maybe what could we say about the seat? Yes. Um, it'll have, like, you know, the numbers in the letters, like 60. Mhm. Exactly. So as long as it has the number in the bag. So we can say it's the same seed as, you know labeled on the airplane. Right. Um payment reference. What can we say about payment. The payment method. This one's maybe a little bit more obvious. We could say it's just like, you know, the the payment reference used for booking the flight. And then for the traveler, we can say the full name of the person traveling in Ascii. Right. So yeah. Question. Mhm. It comes in different offerings. The same number. So my company, America, I might have a fly number that was inspired. Right? Exactly. So this is why we say the operating airline. So this is the airline that actually operates the flight. So if you are on a Delta flight like southwest and I have the same number for doesn't fly versus. I'm not sure if I get the point, because the semantics is specifically saying the airline operating the flight. That will be just a single airline. That is the airline operating the flight, not the airline you're booking it with, but the airline. The issue is the plane. So you also specify the operating airline. Yes. Okay. Uh. Other questions. I think somebody was ready. A hand. Okay, good. And then we can have some definition of the purpose. We can say the airline confirms the requested booking. So let's say we have a GDS booking API and then we can. This is very important. We have to specify the side effects of this operation. If we book a flight like when will our payment method be charged? Will our payment method be charged at the time we make this request? Will it be charged at the time that, um, the flight takes off? Um, and we can say, okay, money is charged if we've successfully used the, uh, the seat as marked as sold and can still be canceled within one hour. So now we have given a very specific constraint that we can still cancel the booking within one hour, but only within one hour. So some airlines will give you like 24 hours to cancel. This API will only give you one hour to cancel, and then usage restrictions only authorize booking systems. And then you have some, uh, some errors that you specify there as well. Okay. So we will ask you for this project to document some parts of your API. If you're not going to document the semantic view, we are going to charge you $193 million. So don't do this. I'm kidding and kidding. Okay. Okay. Guidelines for interface documentation. You want to focus on how elements interact with each other and the externally visible effects. Not the implementation details. Why do you not want to tell people about the implementation details of how you implement your interface? When you advertise your API? Yes. Why does this matter? For intelligibility. Why does it not? Why does it not? Well, I mean, I couldn't I could tell you how to implement this so that you know exactly what's happening. And I'm not going to tell you what's happening. Like. But what's the what's the danger in telling you what is happening? Yes. Exactly, exactly. If we offer an API and we tell people this is how we internally store our data, it can't change it because they may somehow assume this. And then you can change it. Also maybe some security issues as well. Right. If I tell you exactly what kind of data base I'm using, then, you know, maybe people will use this information against you. You want to keep the documentation. You know, documentation will only be read if it's shorter than it takes for you to make the error and notice the difference. So you want to keep it minimal. You want to keep it. Use case oriented and you want to increase the readability. This is still the case with AI, right? If the documentation is too long, it doesn't fit in the context window of the AI and it's still not going to work. So all of this well, exactly apply the same way if you're implementing, if you're documenting your MCP agents or your MCP services, as it does with traditional inter-operability. Hooray! Software engineering is still the same. Even though everything is changing. Okay. Let's look at some GDP. Sabra. Right. Sabra was the third one. Let's look at some Sabra API documentations. You can just Google Sabra API documentation or you can type in this, uh, this URL. Um, and then we're going to give you. Let's also combine this with the break. So I'm going to give you a five minutes break. And you can use this to two things. Or you can use it to um look up the documentation and then in like around five minutes, maybe a little bit more. We'll come back and then we'll, uh, discuss some advantages and disadvantages, pros and cons of the actual GDS, um, API documentation, and we'll see if we have to charge them $193 million as well. Okay, go, go do stuff and then we'll be we'll be back here shortly. Also, I just wanted to show you 35 students were requesting, um, custom avatars in the gym. Uh, so. So that's what we've implemented. So you can customize your hero, and then you can, like, randomly generate different avatars, or you can, you know, customize it to create a lot of customization options of your avatar. You can also like find find Kuna uh, so you can like I can same for like move the ears in okay. So you can really see the ears. Um, yeah. So you can you can fine tune it. You can try to either, you know, model yourself or you can you can model, um, your personal hero. Um, if somehow you can make it look like you or your personal hero, let me know. And then maybe we can add a few more options. Um, but, yeah. Fun stuff. Well, we all are to for you to engage you in the material. And maybe if I have some time in the weekend, I'll add more. Sorry, 130 questions here as well. Okay. When the. You have to activate this first. Oh, interesting. Or the really bad like didn't ignore the beer. The beer is sparkly. This is. I is so bad at drawing SVGs, right? I feel like one skill that I is completely not having. Is generating SVGs. So this is what they are so ugly. But well, it's the other CFD first. And then I tried this. So like if you give it like a really, really high quality comic image and then say, okay, just just vectorize this, it will pretend that it has done it and then it will. Nothing like, you know, nothing like it. It will look like like a two year old having vectorized it. Um, so I guess an SVG generation I is more close to two year old than you know. Someone of your age. Okay. Okay. Let me give you maybe two more minutes to look at the, um, to look at the GDS app. Um, so here is for. This here. Here. Just for the hair. Oh. Oh, what? What has happened here? Wow. Wait. Fig tells you. What? Okay. It seems like it somehow broke this one. Oh, that's really weird. Money is always. Okay. You are looking at the GDS API, right? Okay. Nobody nobody's looking at the GDS API, so it'll just continue. Um, who looked at the GDS API and found some interesting insights? Something that it does well or something that it does not do well. Nobody. Really? Nobody. Okay, let me show you some examples. How about these two documentation? So this is the airport code. Three letter IATA code of the airport and the On-time. Performance in numeric value 0 to 9. Associated with the level of on-time performance. What do we think about these API documentations. Are they. Okay let's let's talk about the first one on time performance. Who thinks this is great API documentation. Who thinks that terrible API documentation? Oh, I think we are seeing hands from people who have not been speaking today. Why? Why are these, uh, bad? You're not. Part of that. Like what? Like when you're nine, you're like. You're giving that range where you're not doing. I mean, that's like. Right. We're not actually saying what it means. So does this, uh, zero mean it is never on time? Does nine mean it has been on time nine times? Maybe. Uh, like it's also unclear. Maybe. Maybe the highest on time performance is five. Like, we don't even know, right? We have no idea. The semantics are completely unclear. Um, how about the upward code? Um, who thinks this is great API documentation? Who thinks that is terrible API documentation. Okay I he's a terrible. Oh. Oh, this this is just the documentation of the code. So, um, like that, that would be used somewhere else, like departure or landing, but yeah. Good point. If this would be just in the request, then that would that would be true. But why is it good. People say it's good. Yes. It's like a standard destination. Exactly. So somewhere the IATA code is specified. These are like the three letter codes like LAX. Right. And there's also another four letter um specification that can be different. Um, so we want to tell people exactly that it should be the IATA code and not something else. Uh, actually some airports have more than one IATA code. So, um, this is not actually 100% precise. So for example, if you want to fly to London, you can say you just want to fly to l o n, but there's no actual airport that is called l o n. There are like three different airports in London and they all like grouped as long and same and in a couple of other places. I'm not sure if there's a la that is LAX and Burbank and a few others I don't know, but. Yeah. This is maybe where this could be improved a little bit, but okay. So this is great. This is using a dictionary that somebody else has defined. That's always great. If somebody else defines it you don't have to include it in your specification. Somebody else will, um, have done this for you. And this is absolutely terrible because it's completely unclear. Okay. Uh, however, that's a real typo that I've never seen before. Wow. Crazy. A lot of airlines are starting to move away from GDS. Why is that? Because GDS only lets you book a seat. You can tell GDS I want to book this specific seat. What is the problem with this? Well, a lot of airlines make much, much more money by offering you certain upgrades. Um. Priority boarding. Um, by making you kind of, uh, be a customer of their, um, uh, of their, um, loyalty program. Um, I think American Airlines actually lost money on selling their seats, and the only money they made was by the loyalty program. A while ago, something like this, I don't remember. Um, but, um. So they make much more money by, uh, not actually doing also. Like, southwest doesn't really assign seats. You can buy a seat on a southwest airline because they have boarding where you do not have a seat assigned. You can pick a seat, right. So this is why southwest cannot use GDS because their boarding procedures do not allow assigning a seat. Um, also, there are some airlines that, uh, for their premium customers allow multiple seats to be merged as a sky coach. So they you can combine these seats together and then you have more space and then. Well, you can't really sell them via GDS because GDS can just sell one individual seat, but it cannot, you know, sell these three seats as a coach. Um, and uh, also airlines do not get what they actually want the customer data. They do not get the opportunity to upcharge you for really needing the flight. Right. So airlines make much more money, but trying to figure out what is the exact price you are willing to pay for this flight and then offering you that price instead of the actual price that somebody else is paying. Uh, GDS does not allow this because GDS does not give the airline any information about the customer itself. Um, so this is why some airlines like Lufthansa, for example, they charge GDS fees. If you're buying a ticket, uh, through GDS of Lufthansa, you pay more because, you know, they do not get any of their own benefits from from selling you this ticket. Um, and, um, this is a problem for a lot of airlines, which is why now they're all kind of trying to move away from GDS. So this system that has made modern air travel possible and the way that it works, that you just go to one central booking portal, you see all of the flights you can compare, then you can buy the the ticket you want to can get rebooked. Actually when you when you get rebooked on a flight. This is really, really interesting. Sometimes if this happens to you, you should look over the shoulder of the travel agent. Or like the airline agent, they will actually use a terminal application that was developed like 30 years ago that has not been maintained in the last 30 years. And they somehow like hack the commands. It kind of looks like Amex. Um, because the system has not been maintained over the last like 30 years or whatever. Um, because it's one system that was developed a long, long time ago. Um, but why is this why is it really, really hard for GDS to support these additional use cases? So we have airlines that have new requirements, right? We live in a real world scenario as we've learned. And the first lecture requirements are important because they can change. So now our requirements have changed. Our requirements have changed. We have non seat assigned booking. We have priority boarding add ons. We have some seat transformations. Why is it really hard for GDS to accommodate this. Now that it's been an operation David. Tries. That's a great point. So we need to think of new abstractions. We need to think about abstractions that we've not thought about when we implement any other ideas. You raised your hand. Oh, um. Do you, um. Right. Yeah. Okay. Um, maybe, like, different airlines have, like, many different information, and they will make the interface very complex if we want to use single interfaces. And what's the problem with that? Um, what is the problem with a complex interface? Like, if some airlines only need part of that information that you have to support. Say it was with a lot of, uh, good pilot. Alarm system uses. The whole entire world value system? Yes, exactly. So now we have hundreds of airlines and hundreds of booking systems that all implement this interface. They have implemented this for like, I don't know, 80 years or whatever. Um, nobody who has originally implemented this is still working at the company, right? Nobody understands the code. Nobody even seen the code. Uh, it's actually really funny. When you go on Reddit and you search for GDS, you just see developers complaining about how poor the maintainability is and how how how bad the code is, and that nobody really knows how it works. Um, so once you have implemented a interface and hundreds of systems across all countries like these airlines are all like global, right? Like it's like hundreds of countries have implemented this interface. Once you've implemented into an interoperable interface, once it's in production, it's almost impossible to change. It's almost impossible to change. That's a really big insight. So you have this tradeoff between interoperability and changeability. Okay. We've talked about this. Okay, let's make GDS more changeable. Okay. Let's come up. Well, it's okay that you do this, okay. You do this. Okay. You do this. Come up with a more changeable API for GDS. Okay. And you think about this for 30s two minutes. Okay, let's give you two minutes. This is not trivial. Oh. Because I think maybe some of. Worst case. You're getting quiet. What? What idea have you come up with? Yeah. Okay. David. So then like for instance, for the thatching you can make. Like crap you are based on so that you feel like you're fetching more specifically, the type of information that you actually want, as opposed to being forced to process all information that you didn't. So you basically say instead of one API, we have like a couple of separate APIs of different specialized requests and little group and based on like, okay, that makes sense to group them by type. Any other ideas? Elliot. Additional other fields. I'm thinking like if you add optional fields, it's basically the same, except that you could use it or you could not write everything right up to. And you have. To go outside and use the data provided about the users to the airlines in exchange for like cheaper tickets. That's a great practical solution. So we think of some optional fields. So let's say, uh, priority boarding could be like an optional field that we add that some airlines may support in. Some others may not. And then we've solved the problem of backwards compatibility. But what's the what's the downside of having like a lot of different optional fields. If you also don't know how. Like the. So they might walk. Exactly. So you still have to come up with one kind of fixed list of things that people can buy and sell, and then, uh, that may change. Well, what if you also, instead of just having requests for like. You also have a generalized data stream that would go between. The payment system through GDS to each of the airlines to kind of do with what they will to be able to sell you those flights. Okay, so could I have like a separate kind of data stream that is maybe not governed by any GDS implementation interfaces, but that is maybe some small custom or something. I think it could be defined. Okay, just so that the airlines know what format they're getting it but related to, that's not necessarily would be almost like tangential user information. Tangential user information okay. That gets kind of in the direction that I was thinking of. Any other ideas? How can we make this like a maximally changeable and extensible? Maximally changeable, extensible, dynamically extensible by any kind of thing that a airline may sell in, a customer may buy. No ideas. You folks probably have an idea. No. No idea. Yes, Elliot. Uh, I think like. As for you, where you throw all the random garbage parameters you want to upload. Okay. I would not call them random garbage, but add on is exactly the word right? So we can dynamically define some add ons that the user may buy. So the airline can say, okay, here is this list of multiple add ons. Every add on has a price, a name, some kind of description that we then show to the user. So we show it to the user. There's priority boarding. Priority boarding means you can skip the line you in this boarding group. You may also skip security or whatever. You know you can you can offer all of these different add ons. Um, there you you show to the user and then you document the interface to say the price is the price. And since excluding tax additionally charges when this add on is selected, the name is the name of the add on as shown to the user in UTF eight. The description is a short description shown to the user in order to decide if they want to purchase this add on, and then the ID is a unique identifier of this add on. Starting with the flight number in Ascii and uh. With this API, we can now let airlines offer whatever they want, right? We don't need to anticipate what are the needs of, um, things that airlines may sell in the future. We just need to anticipate that whatever they sell can fit the format of price, name, description and ID. This will still not cover any of the like user data. They will not necessarily, um, um, cover all potential, um, upgrades that people may or may choose because maybe, uh, maybe the price is dependent on something. Um, right. Maybe the price, uh, is not actually just a number. Maybe the price is not just an ID, maybe the price depends on something. Maybe it's a maybe it's a percentage increase. Um, on, uh, let's say, uh, this assumes that add ons are independent of each other. Right? So this assumes that I can select multiple add ons. And then the sum of the add ons is just the sum of, of the individual prices. So a few assumptions. We still bake in here. Uh but we are much more extensible. We now have dynamically added add ons and then our customers can choose and that will then be displayed to them in some list. And now okay now we can now we can sell priority boarding. Now we can sell, um, the VIP pass. And now we can sell the, uh, shake hands with the pilot or whatever. Um, whatever we want to offer, we can put this in our, uh, add on format. So the. What is the disadvantage of this API? Over the existing. Why have they not done this? I mean, maybe they didn't think about it, but even if they would have thought about it, what good reason may have prevented them? From offering this well. Security issues. Uh huh. On utilized. An attack on one of those. Right. So yeah, I mean, depending on how the contract works, if the right if the description is showing and let's say, um, some kind of HTML, um, then there may be some kind of, uh, cross-site scripting attack potentially happening that some, uh, attacker may, may inject some JavaScript and then may exploit vulnerabilities. And the booking systems could be. Yes. Okay. So that's a really interesting insight here right. So GDS or like Sahpra or uh, Amadeus or Travelport, they make money just by charging the airlines, you know, fees for using their services. As long as the airlines still feel like they are pressured by, um, their customers because all of their customers book via Google flights, right? Like if you're not shown on Google flights, you may lose customers because most customers just go to Google flights and then look for your flight. You're not showing there. You have a disadvantage. Um, so they're kind of pressured by by this. And then GDS just never really felt like they have the economic incentive of implementing all of the needs that the modern airlines doesn't have, because they all kind of pressured into using this because everyone is using this. And, um, not enough airlines have said goodbye to GDS. So there are economic concerns as well that it was just not necessarily in the economic interest of the providers to implement this. That's a really good point. Um, that's another reason why this interface has some downsides. Yes, we would love. It's less interoperable. Right. So these the definition of this add ons can be very different across airlines. And they may somehow mislead the um um mislead the user. Maybe this description is not necessarily, uh, uh, well defined enough. And then uh, if you GDS offer this, you then may be liable for some misinterpretations or whatever. You know, uh, you know, there are a lot of different reasons, but I think the main reason why this is, uh, not implemented is because it's much harder to implement having some kind of dynamic, um, um, list selection. That means every single UI there has to interact with this has to show this dynamic list with all of these different elements, has to parse those, has to explain those. And you know, GDS is implemented by hundreds of systems. So if you add this, uh, hundreds of systems would have to change and hundreds of systems have to somehow support this UI list element that they would not have had to support before. Um, I mean, you could still say as a, as a booking agent that you're not offering these, these add ons, but then maybe your customer may go to a different, um, booking system that allows them to update to add these add ons. So inter-operability often conflicts of changeability as a quality attribute. So we have some quality attributes that often, um, synergize with each other. Right. So performance and availability often synergize with each other. If a task finishes very quickly, that means you can serve more customers. You have a higher load. Um, if you, um, have high modularity. And that often means that you also have, uh, more security because you have more, uh, isolated components, um, that can then have more tight access control. Uh, so some quality attributes you're learning in this class synergize with each other. Those two do not. Those are always almost always opposed to each other. The more interoperability you have, the more systems need to support your interface. The more change, the less changeability of the interface you have, and the more changeable you make your interface, the harder it will be to implement, and then fewer people will actually end up implementing it because it's harder to do so. And this is why I kind of, um. Contrast this to us. Um. Uh, practical interoperability. So the way how you measure your practical interoperability. So in practice, how, um, how widely supported can your system be? You measure the effort to implement the interface. Uh, this means a more complex interface or a more complex data format is less likely to be adapted by multiple systems because it has a higher implementation cost. And then you measure the variability of the data format or interface, which basically means the add ons have more variability but also more effort to implement. Um, the more variability needs to support small use cases, which means potential extensions are more likely and easier to support. Um, but then, you know, you add an additional burden on the person who actually needs to implement it. So if you come up with an interface, you come up with like an MCP interface. Um, you need to think about these things. You need to think of what is the right trade off between your interface being simple enough that enough other people are willing to implement it, versus it's, uh, extensible and, um, uh, has enough variability. David. Mhm. That's a great question. Okay, so for those who didn't hear this, the question was what incentivizes someone from offering into optimal service? Let's say Google saying I'm going to offer my my interface for everybody to use. And there are a couple of reasons. One, of course, is money. You can charge someone for using your service. Uh, you can offer your service. You can be open AI. You can be like, I'm offering this API. People can use my large language model via this API, but they need an API key, and then we charge them money for this. Um, you can also, um, um, make this a, uh, data argument if more people use your API to, to figure out what to offer, what services you offer. You get more information about what people want, right? And in the current economy, knowing what people want. That's incredibly valuable. Very valuable. Knowing what people want, it's very valuable. So you get all of the data by people making requests, you know, real time. What people are interested in that can be very valuable. Also, uh, you create an ecosystem, right? So if you think about Nvidia, uh, Nvidia became the the default AI platform, not necessarily because the hardware was the best. If you compare Nvidia GPUs with AMD GPUs on the raw, um, floating points per second, they're all very similar. If you compare them on the raw memory bandwidth, they're all very similar. Um, but because Nvidia has this open layer Cuda, um, like a larger stack of software that they provide for free to everybody. Uh, that initially doubled their cost without creating an indirect revenue stream. But this has created a large mode for Nvidia, where now the entire AI infrastructure stack is built on top of Cuda, and now everything runs faster on Nvidia than AMD because they are using Cuda. Um, so you may have a long term impact of making something accessible. Making your service used creates a moat that more people use your systems, and they are dependent on your systems. And at some point you can charge them. At some point you can be like, okay, now we're going to now we're going to charge you for this. Initially it's for you would just ask you for, let's say, uh, account token, we can be open AI. We can just say, okay, we asked you just for a GitHub AI, we can API. We can we can charge a we can ask you to have a GitHub token. And then at some point they can be like okay, now you also need to have a certain uh, account, um, po account, the plus icon. Or you need to pay money for a request, whatever you want. Right. So this is kind of how you, how you can monetize the openness of your service. Does it make sense? Okay. A great question and a software engineering class. We are thinking about the economic viability of our solutions as well. And this is this is kind of about this trade off. So now we have interoperability as a runtime quality attribute. The runtime quality attribute of interoperability was about how much data can be exchanged and interpreted correctly. And the design time quality attribute of interoperability is about the trade offs between effort to implement and um and variability of the interface, and they are often in conflict with each other. So the more variability you interface has, usually the higher the effort to implement necessarily always. But in most cases, in most cases they are often. And also if you move each other and then you need to think about what's the right trade off, how can we design our interface to support the current and future use cases without adding too much of an implementation burden on our customers or our users? Okay. Questions about this. I think this is this is often a somewhat confusing element, um, at least when I. Had this lecture. CMU master's students, most of them didn't really get this. So if you feel confused by this, you're in good company. Questions about this. Okay. Okay, let's think about this problem. Now we need to integrate with an existing system. So our system uses some kind of XML format for expressing the data. But the system we want to enter operate with let's say we in our competitor we have developed systems individually. And then now we're going through a merger or now we want to we have economic incentives to and to operate with our systems because our customers want to switch from one to the other. And we we feel like there's an economic incentive for us to enable this. Uh, what should we do if we have different interfaces? Yes. What? Yes, exactly. You need to implement an adapter. The adapter is specifically designed for this use case. You can create a an XML to Json adapter that is localizing this change here. And no this is not a valid UML syntax. This is valid UML syntax. This is just showing you okay, there are separate interfaces, but only this is correct UML syntax. Yep. So yeah. Adapt this. Uh, I think we mentioned it earlier as well. Uh, they play a really, really big part and intelligibility, because if you have designed your systems individually, then you may want to have this adapter in place that is translating between these different interfaces. Question. Can this adapter only support syntactic interoperability or can it also. Uh. Supports semantic interoperability. Yes it can. How? Um. Different like. You want to say the same thing? Yeah. Okay. So sometimes. Sometimes. Not always. Because let's say you have very different side effects. It's sometimes really hard to translate between side effects. It is easy to translate between units, between if there's a if there's a mapping it's easy but not necessarily. It's not always a mapping. Not always in most cases, but not in all cases. Okay. Health care is a great example where interoperability is needed. So patients would love to go from one hospital to another. Right. So they they started being a patient at one hospital. And then they would love to go to a different hospital that has people who are more specialized in the specific, um, surgery that needs to be performed. They would love to take the, uh, electronic medical record with them from one hospital to another. How can this data be transferred between hospitals? And for this question, I have to tell you, you have to ignore all kinds of, uh, insurance questions. Let's ignore insurance questions. For now. Let's just focus on the technical interoperability between these separate hospital systems, come up with different ideas of how we could allow patients to go from a Swiss hospital to a, um, destination hospital. Okay. 30s. Question. This is what I'm going. Oh, nice. Nice. Then the next slide will be really useful for you. Awesome. Okay. Any suggestions? Through maybe having a unified interface between one hospital and the other hospital. Right. So we could basically have like a G.P.S. for electronic medical records. Right? So all hospitals in the country, or even better, or hospitals in the world could agree on one interface of a medical record. Are there any challenges with this? Is this maybe non-trivial? David. Getting them to agree. Right. So they're all doctors. They all have different opinions, right? Yes. There's always this question. Right. If you need to diagnosis, you ask three doctors to get five different opinions. Uh, I'm pretty sure that would also be the case on what needs to go into a medical record. Okay. Are there any other options besides this? You know, JD's of medical records. Any other options I could? Peer to peer. So they all need to support a specific interface. And then if it's like. Sure. Why did I put my, uh, that I put my click. Okay. Any other idea besides. Digital ones? Yes. You print it? Exactly. Exactly. That's that's the solution that I think most systems are implementing right now. Okay. So you have like some kind of central network like GDS, uh, better usability and flexibility, higher development costs, like all of the, uh, systems need to agree on some, uh, format, and they probably all represent that data in a completely different way. I'm not a doctor. I don't know how they do this, but I'm pretty sure that they all use different ways to implement this. And then also. They all need to share the same interface and agree on this interface. Manual data transfer. Like you can print them out or if you live long enough, you may have seen those disks. Who has seen those disks that you put? Wow, okay. You are really old. Um, I have not seen. I have not seen KDS for for ten years. I don't even have a like. I don't even have a place where I could could plug this in. I've been free of CDs for at least ten years. Um. Now if you are security concerns, right? If you have some kind of interface where digital systems can access your patient record, well, that opens up a lot of security concerns because people really care about the privacy of their medical data. Um, also, you may keep your patients if you make it harder for patients to leave your hospital. That can be good. Uh, it can also be bad, of course, for the patient. Uh, but for you as a provider, that can potentially. It also means that you don't get new patients as easily. Right? Um, also, this this is higher labor costs. So, you know, the nurse or whoever has to enter this new data from the printout. So there are some trade offs here. There are some trade offs here. Um, so what kind of. Data do we need to change? Let's maybe brainstorm some data elements. So we remember from the list of from the design principle. If we have to come up with an interface format, we need to first list all the data that needs to be exchanged. And then we need to do what after we've listed all the data, what's what's another step we need to do? Remembers. Do you remember this? Important. You have to do this probably when you're in a job. Mm. Like format. Format. You then define the format. And then after you've defined the format what do you do then. Well it's very important to document in the format. The semantics. You're not going to have to pay $193 million. That's good. Very good. Okay, let's do this. I guess not. Most of you are not doctors. Uh, so here is what I guess. I came up with. So you have a name, date of birth, gender, contact details. Uh, some demographics of the patient. You then have some medical history, right? You want to have, like, past medical conditions, surgeries, hospitals, allergies, immunizations. So you have, like, some kind of list of structured documents. Right. You have a list of allergies? Yeah. Well. Yeah. You need you need a lot of data and then test results. You need to have various tests of vitals, blood tests, images, biopsy. So you have some images, some table, some free text. Right. So now you actually have a lot of different data formats here. And um, how can we ensure semantic interoperability. This one is really difficult. Maybe maybe we can answer this one. Do you have an idea? Yep. There are some some stand ups about this. Um, there are some notes about this. So there is, um. The Senate seat. The system is a systemized nomenclature of medical clinical terms. What you're referring to. No. Not exactly. I think this is international. Um, there may be like a like a US government, uh, uh, separate one. So this is standardized terminology. So different kind of doctors may use different kind of terms for diseases or for, uh, for, for test results. Like again you have units, right. If you're if you are in a US hospital they may use different units. And if you're in a Canadian hospital and you may also want those somehow to talk to each other. Um, and then there are semantic data models. There are a there's the resource description framework, the web ontology language. So there are some ontologies that help you to describe the data models. And then of course you need some adapters because your internal, uh, representation may be different from the one that everybody has agreed on. And then you need adapters to change format, standardize units, and you have to deal with the different kind of plans. Again, um, just in medical terms. Okay. Nice. We make. Oh I think. Somehow I think. Oh, we did code review last lecture and we didn't finish the code review. Let's maybe get seven more minutes. Let's maybe finish the code review from last lecture. Um. Where is our code review lecture? Mhm. Code review. Okay. So we wanted to do some code review. Okay. Let's look at this code. What do we think about this code? Hall of Fame A Hall of Shame. Hall of Fame. A Hall of Shame and Why? Yep. I don't know, I feel like there's a lot. There's a lot of if and I think you probably already have too much, but, uh, how can we reduce the number of if else here. What can we do? Yeah, well. Switch statement. Not sure if you could use a switch statement here, because when you need to calculate like there's no attribute, you can switch over, you know, switch. Well, yes, but then you only have two of faults. Right. So you have different kind of conditions. We need to check that are not in one attribute. So I don't think you could use a switch statement here. Yes. A map or a dictionary? Maybe. Maybe. I mean, you could probably have the result. Like. Yes, you could have, like a dictionary of closures. Maybe. Uh, I think that's the much easier technique you can use. It's called a guard clause. And a guard clause. You exit early. You reduce the nesting level of your code by returning in cases that then do not proceed right. So in this code we have, we get result and then return at the very end. And we have this really big nesting level of a lot of elses. So we still keep on ifs but we will lose all of the elses. So if the person is dead then we reduce this and then we do not have to worry about all of the other cases as well. So here it's not actually obvious that we don't have to like the way return here, right? That's not necessarily obvious. Um. Here it is obvious you have a smaller nesting level. So research has shown that the smaller the nesting level, the easier the code is to understand. So you want to reduce your nesting level. Okay, let's look at this one. What can we do here? What can we do here? Yeah. What's her name? Lavinia. We can check the arrows first. That's good. Yeah. So so we have a normal path that is highly nested. And then we have kind of the exceptional paths here so we can um, uh, yeah, we can basically log the errors first and then we can have the normal path. Yeah. So the God class here is basically yeah checking the error cases for the non normal cases. And then we proceed with the normal case. So yeah basically same thing we do um conditions. Okay. So you want to reduce the nesting level. Research has shown the nesting level 15 plus is literally the worst. Nobody understands what's going on. Uh avoid that. Um. Okay. Let's look at these two versions A and B. Which one is better? Which one is better? Okay. Elliot already goes up b y y b. Oh. It's shorter. Okay. So we have built meaningful abstractions. We have captured parts of the behavior into meaningful variable names that allow people to understand what is going on without having to read the code. Yeah, you have to read the code to understand what's going on. It takes much more working memory. It takes much more cognitive effort to understand this is much easier to read, be less working memory, meaningful abstractions. Okay defensive programing. You want to describe the pre and post conditions of your functions. And then you want to assert them as assertions. So this is the contract the visible contract that you promote. And then you actually check the contract. Isn't this great. You tell people this is the precondition. This is the post condition that we guarantee. And then you advertise those and then you can automatically check them. And most programing languages you have some kind of assertion that is part of the programing language that can or cannot go into the production code. You do not usually want all of your assertions to always go in the production code. That depends on your specific situation. In Python you can run Python dot o. That's the optimized interpreter flag. Then it will not actually check these statements. Yes. Why not? Okay. Um, they add runtime overhead. If for your specific context, runtime overhead is really important because you operate a cell, it a satellite, or you operate a medical device. Um, then you may use these assertions just to make sure that your code is free of bugs. Um, and then you want to check those only at the system boundary. So as you get user input, you want to keep those assertions. So the user input assertions you want to keep, but then the internal assertions that are basically just checking that your components are connected correctly. Those ones you may want to optimize away for. Exactly. So the goal of the of programing is that you find the bugs in your own code before you ship it, and then when you ship it, um, you assume it's free of bugs and then you just have, um, checks on user input. Yeah. So this is how it works in Python and GCC. You can see debug um to turn them off. Such just turn off. Yes. Yes. For the user input, I wouldn't use the assert keyword. I would, I would then show a user error and then, you know, maybe throw an exception or something like this. Or I would show the user, you know, the input you entered is incorrect. I wouldn't I wouldn't crash the application based on incorrect user input. I would use, uh, safe degradation. Okay. Nice. We've made it on time. There is the Boy Scout. Girl scout rule. I always leave the campground cleaner. Then you, uh, found it. And that also applies to code. If you are making a change in the piece of code, you may want to, uh, um, employ the Boy Scout girls. Good rule. And you want to leave the module cleaner than you found it. So when you change the module and you see that you could add some nice assertions, you could maybe reduce the cognitive load needed to understand it. But you only want to do this if you really understand the module, right. Like the worst developer is the one who is very confident and their refactorings, and then they completely break the module. Those are the ones that are not going to be on the employee of the month list. Uh, so you only want to do this as you really understand what's going on. Um, because you want to avoid being, um, uh, Sheldon Cooper, who is reviewing a paper. Why why why? Oh, that's wide right? Maybe sometimes there's actually a reason for, uh, for it being implemented this way. Uh, so you want to find the reason before you. Before you judge the code is bad. I'm not sure if this is a meme that people still get. Who who still has watched. Not Young Sheldon, but the actual original, um, Big Bang Theory. One. Two. Three. Four. Okay, so this this meme is getting outdated, I guess. Okay, that's good to know. I used to grew up with this name. And before you refactor, very important you need to have good tests. I love this metaphor that Gemini created for me. So you refactor, you juggle the modules only if you have a safety net of comprehensive tests. Okay, nice. Then now it is time for your exit tickets. And the password of your exit ticket is. Semantics. I think it's semantics. Can somebody try? Semantics. Capital S. Okay. Because this is the most important insight. Otherwise, you lose $193 million. Don't do that. That doesn't look great on your resume. I keep using Lockheed Martin as a case study for things. Where? Where things go wrong? People ask me what? I like them a lot. Um, I don't know, they just show up in soft engineering case that if they go wrong. They will show up in the scrum lecture as well for something, but I'm not really sure. I would think it's it's a bad example. They might maybe disagree, but. Oh, no. This is the wrong exit ticket. This is your exit ticket. Okay. Some of that like 45 students here, but we usually get like 100 exit tickets. That seems like somebody's leaking passwords, which is a crime. Do not commit crimes. Okay, so if we get like more than 45 exit ticket submissions today. I know that people have committed academic dishonesty who are in this room and who outside of this room. That's not good. Don't commit academic dishonesty. It gets you in trouble. One of my colleagues at CMU has a wedding in her syllabus. Um, that if you cheat on a single exit ticket, you instantly fail the class. Um, that this kind of a policy at some other institutions. Um, we do not have this wedding in our syllabus. Um, you will not instantly fail the class if you cheat on an exit ticket. But, uh, you will have to talk to the dean about why you did it. And that's not usually the most fun conversation. Um. I don't I've not had this conversation. I've had this conversation from the other end with the deans would. Not from the student end. Okay area. We have published the grades for the midterm and also for homework two. So you now get most of your already earned points. If you feel like that is below what you can do. You can prove it in the final.