[Auto-generated transcript. Edits may have been applied for clarity.] Hello? Okay. I think a few students have not submitted their homework yet. Make sure if you have not submitted your homework yet, you should submit your homework because it is overdue. We do not accept submissions after the um after the late due date. So if you want to get points, make sure you submit. We will also be releasing the next homework. I believe. Today. And it will be very short. It will be like a. I believe the next homework. It's just going to take you 20 minutes. If you're very slow it will take you 20 minutes. So, um, make sure you don't schedule this for the last 20 minutes before the deadline, because we are not be like, oh, yeah. Yeah, this was a lot of work. We can give you an extension. No, we will not be doing that because we need to. We will not be able to grade the next homework before the midterm. So we will be releasing the solutions right after the deadline so that you see the solutions. And then you can see if you've made a mistake. And then you can potentially, uh, ask questions on Monday or whatever. No way. Yes, exactly. Yeah, exactly. Okay. Oh, what's happening here? Oh, HDMI. That's the one. Um, okay. Recording was not converted. Um, software. If just somebody would, you know, know how to engineer software. That would be wonderful. Okay, today we will be. Discussing more design patterns. I am very sorry that I was not able to get the visitor into this lecture. Um, because 35 L kept me very, very busy. Um, but we will be having fun with other design patterns. Okay. So let's talk about the singleton. Oh, that's gonna be getting rid of. This and oops, we will be oops. Maybe let me just do this. I got this. Will also be providing a notebook LM with all of the material of the class to very soon. Um, we will probably, uh, be asking you for your, uh, g.ucla.edu email. Uh, and then we'll send you an invite to this, uh, and, uh, it will only work with zero ucla.edu account. It will not work with any other kind of account. Um, because. Google and UCLA have somehow, uh, set this boundary that we cannot share a Google notebook with in on, uh, UCLA notebook collab with any other kind of account that will be impossible. Do not send any request permission to view on any other account. I will just spam my email and I will get very, very angry at, uh, life. Um, anyways, okay. This singleton. Oops. Um. These. Singleton. The singleton is a design pattern that is specifically designed to make sure that we want to create only a single instance of our of our class. There are quite a few. Oops. There are quite a few situations in which we want just a single instance of an object or class. For example, in thread pools and caches and dialog boxes and logging objects. Um, somehow. Is it just me, or is somehow the audio gone when I'm here? Okay. Maybe not. I am just imagining that it's just the speakers anyways. Uh, so there are a lot of situations where you just want exactly one instance of your class. Um, and, uh, the singleton is designed to help you do this. What is wrong with us? Just having a global variable that says thread pool a global variable thread. But why? Why would a solution where we just create a global variable for the one instance that we need? It's always accessible from everywhere in the server. Why is this not necessarily a good idea? Any ideas? Okay. Go. You first. You don't answer that often. Yes. A security issue. Um, we don't want everybody to have access. I guess security is usually something that you would have, like at the system boundary. Uh, but you are right that if that's an attacker somehow gets access to one of the components, uh, then they would they would get access to all of the components. And what do you have in your answer? Um. Information heading. What information have what? Some kind of how it's like accessible from everywhere then. Exactly, exactly. If we have too many dependencies on our global object, then whenever we want to change this, uh, we get into an a big mess of having ripple through changes everywhere. We want to hide the, um, reference. So we don't want everybody to just mess around with our instance. Uh, it could be modified. Modified from any other place in the code. So we, we basically have not hidden this variable from anybody else. So we might want to have a specific, um, uh, policy that decides which, uh, components would be able to know about this. Uh, also, you might want to instantiate in the beginning of a program. I might not want to instantiate in the beginning of the program. You might want to, um, decide, um, when you want to instantiate this. So you want to have more control over this. Okay. How do we create an object in Java? Who has. Done the Java tutorial or has paid attention. And professor eggheads 131. Okay? Yes. How do you call this? That's right. We say new ally object. Okay. Now we've created, um, an object. What happens if you call this a second time? Super easy question. Just another object. A good one. Yes. We just get a second object. Wow. Object orientation. Okay. Uh. We don't. How can we now prevent this object from. Uh, how can we ensure that we only have a single instance of this class? If if we create new. If you call a new object a second time, we get a new. And so we don't want. So you just want a single instance? Yes. Hey. What? Why don't we just make it a static class? Uh, what is the static class? I mean, it's not really. It's a class that only has static methods. Uh, it's. The reason for not having a static class is that in many cases, at some point you want to say, okay, maybe, maybe we actually want more than one instance. And then you have to change every single place in the code that calls class dot method instead of object dot method. No. It's not because, uh. To. I guess if a singleton ad would be. It would be. Mhm. Okay. Um. I see where you're going with this. I would say if you have just a purely static class, you are, um, not hiding the, uh, design decision that it is, uh, a class that has just a single instance, because then everybody knows that everything is, um. Why is that an issue? Because, uh. If all of the classes know that there is just a single instance of this object, uh, they might make assumptions on this, and then it's hard to change this decision later. With the singleton. If you use the singleton, right? That's not the case. Later. We'll see later how people use it and why it's absolutely terrible use and 80% of the cases. The singleton design pattern is the only design pattern that the authors of the original design pattern book literally wrote a paper about, later saying they regret that they put it in the book because they put it in the book and they told people this is an acceptable solution. And everybody was like, yes, that's acceptable solution. Okay, we should do this. We should have more singletons. We'll see later why this is an incredibly bad idea. Um, okay. Somehow didn't make clear. You're running out of battery. No. Oh, my clicker ran on a battery. That's not good. Um. And I have to stand around here, um, for a longer period of time. Okay. How can we prevent the instantiation of our class? So we we have this constructor. Everybody can call this constructor. How can we make sure that nobody can access our constructor. Any ideas? How can we prevent anybody from accessing? Yes. Make it private? Yes. You don't like white? Okay. Um. We make it private. So now we've made our constructor private. Nobody can call this constructor outside of this class. Okay. But now know that nobody can call the constructor. How can we how can we still, you know, create an object? Yes. We can create a static instance of this class. Um, and make sure that we're only instantiated once. That's right. So we have a public get, uh, we have a public get instance method that accesses this static instance. Um, and. Then we just call, uh, my class dot get instance to get the actual instance, um, and to create our instance. Now let's look at the, um, coding example. And then we have. Given you in the. Um. Files. So. You want to, uh, check out the file C and there's a design pattern. Skeleton. This is a, uh, PDF document where we put implementation examples, uh, of all of the design patterns that we're covering here. Let's look at the, uh, singleton so we can. Create an implementation of the singleton that looks like this. So we have a public class. We have a, uh, private static instance. Uh, we have a private constructor. And then we have a public get instance method that checks if our instance is null. We have not created the instance yet. So then we instantiate it and we would just return the instance. Okay. This is the classical. Singleton implementation. So we have, uh, our unique instance, we have our, uh, public get instance method that checks whether the instance has been set yet. Uh, it will create one. Um, and then we are done. Okay. The singleton design pattern is, um, solving a very specific problem. The problem that the singleton is solving is that we want a single instance of, uh, a class, and we want to provide global access to this instance. Um, this is how it's written down in the design Patterns book. Um, the. Second part is what everybody focus on. Everybody was like, we want global instance. We create classes where we just have a public get instance method. Everybody can access this. It's super easy. We don't have to pass around objects. We don't need to think about, uh, fine grained access control. We will just provide global access and then we will, um. Um. Um, and sure, everybody has, uh, has access to this instance. Uh, this results in a really, really, really big mess because then we basically have created a global variable, uh, that is, um, just not actually a global variable. It's just a, you know, public instance. We don't want this. So we want to make sure that we use the singleton design pattern if and only if the first part of the, uh, design pattern is true. If we have an instance, a class where we just want a single instance, um, and if this is not the main design goal, we should not even think about using that the singleton design pattern. If we have a class where, um, we just want, uh, to pass it around everywhere, uh, we should not use the singleton design pattern. There has been a, uh, really good, great book written by Josh rectory. Uh, refactoring to patterns. I would really recommend you to read this book. It's a great book. And, uh, as a a textbook to read for the design patterns portion where he's describing all of the adventures, the disadvantages of patterns. And then, uh, he is describing the he and his friends, they, uh, built a, uh, uh, a group kind of like the, um, um, um, like, like a self-help group called the Singleton Anonymous. Um, everybody is like, saying my name and a name. Uh, what is the problem? Well, I've been using the singleton, and after a few months, suddenly the entire, uh, uh, architecture became rigid. It's not changeable. And then, uh, uh, the inside was basically, you should not use the singleton, uh, in any situation except for, uh, when you want a single instance and then you do not want to use. This is my personal recommendation for the singleton design pattern. You do not want to call the get instance method more than once. You create the object, and then you hide the design decision that it's a singleton by, um, just passing around the object and showing we have this component, we have that component. That component should have access to the single. And we pass this object. We have the get instance call basically just once where we create the object we just call it get instance. Um that would be my recommendation. If you have the get instance call in every single place where you want to access this object, you're doing the singleton wrong. Um, I have been incredibly evil and and saying you should never, ever use the singleton design pattern until I've had a conversation, uh, with my dad. He was building a an app that, uh, does, uh, simulation of, uh, planets. Um, and he accidentally created two different instances of the Earth, um, and then, uh, setting variable setting attributes and one part of the class, and then, uh, they somehow didn't get to the other parts of the system, uh, because he accidentally created two different instances of the class, which should not happen. That should only be a single Earth. Uh, it's like. Yes, you have just given me the best example that I'm going to use in all of my lectures on when you might want to use the singleton design pattern. You want to use it when you are absolutely sure that in this current design of the system, you want a single instance. And if you have multiple instances, it may potentially just mess up absolutely everything. This is what the singleton, this form and the class diagram, uh, basically looks exactly like this. But with this design now we've come up with we have a really, really, really, really, really big problem of a really big problem. Okay, maybe let's look at the code example again. And now activate your super Max thinking mode. Can you think of some. Corner case where this is actually creating more than one thing, more than one instance. Talk to your neighbor. Okay. Does anybody see a problem? What problem might might occur? Well, that's an idea. What kind of race condition could be there to get separated? Let's try to call it at the same time before Norway set. Uh. Uh, it's. If they're defined. Exactly. Exactly. We could have multiple threads calling get instance at the same time. Let's look at. Let's look at this example. So this is not threads. So we have two threads. They both execute exactly the same code. The first thread is now at the if uh, statement. It's checking whether a unique instance is not okay. It's the first time we're executing this line. Of course it's not. So we jump into the else into the then branch. Now the at the same time the other thread is executing this statement. Well, if we've not actually executed this line yet. So this condition is still true. It's still true. So we now also jump into the then branch both threads. So both threads now create a new instance and return this new instance to their respective parts of the program. Now we have created two instances. One is stored and the unique instance. The other one is not stored here, but is used by whoever has called get instance and can then be passed around. That's a big issue. The whole point why we wanted the singleton. So we have a single object and our implementation doesn't work. That's too bad. What can we do? What can we do? Any ideas? Yes. Hmhm. You ate lox, right? You at lox and critical sections around this. Good catch. So the thread safe Singleton is basically just declaring the get instance. Call us synchronized. So synchronized is a Java keyword. And that enforces locking. That ensures that only a single thread is inside the get instance call. Okay, so, uh, we've solved the problem. We solved the problem. We've now, um, ensured that only a single thread can create this instance restored, and then we can make it accessible. Okay. But there may be another issue with that implementation. Hmm. Any other problem that might occur with that implementation made a thread safe. I've created the lock. Only a single thread can be in the get instance method. What? Yes. It's about an hour because we made it, uh, synchronized. We only have a single thread inside of the method. Uh, so when one thread is calling it instance, um, then it's creating a lock that is preventing any other thread from entering. Uh, the get instance method. Um. So this the next thread that wants to call get instance waits until we've left. They get instance call. Eventually the. One would return like a reference to that. That's right. Right. And another time with another thread that would also get a reference. Now they both have. But we have we have assigned a unique instance a non null value. So the the condition s is then false. So we do not overwrite unique instance. We just return the already existing unique instance. I guess I'm thinking like kind of future. In terms of calling other methods like, uh. Well, that's the whole point. We want to use the singleton. If we definitely want to make sure that it's just a single object, and then that might be used like the Earth, for example, right. You have multiple functions that call some operations on the Earth. Um, we want to make sure it's this, the same object that we that we call this operational. But is may maybe another problem with this code? Yes. Huh? Is it locking? That's right. Yes. It's very inefficient. The performance can can drain quite a bit, because now we've added locking for every single get instance call if we have somehow. Um. Um. Use the get instance. Caught in a lot of different places. We. Now, after we've created the object, we always have to lock and wait, right? We create the object once we've gained our, uh, uh, correctness property. But now we get a lot of performance downside. Because now, every single time somebody calls get instance, we have to wait. So we get some performance downside. So, um. Yeah. Other. Any other options? Well, we can use what's called IGA instantiation. IGA instantiation means that we create the new instance at the time we load the class. Uh, instead of having the what's called lazy instantiation that we instantiate the object in the first get instance call, we do it even before we call a get instance, right. There's no race condition in, uh, the code that's executed at load time. Okay, so now we could do this. This would be a a great, uh, way to do this. But now we actually will always create this object, even if it's never used. So now we we have a trade off, we get some performance, but we we sacrifice some memory consumption in some situations. So the cleanest implementation of the singleton in Java is to use the volatile keyword here. So volatile means it is uh. It is threat safe. So it interested multiple threats. Handle the, uh get instance uh call correctly. So they are they are not um, they will not be modified by different threats. So we ensure that this instance is only accessed by one threat at a time. It's kind of like a, uh, uh, it acts like a synchronized block that is, uh, that is only, um, around the, uh, setting of the, uh, of the unique instance. So then we only synchronize at the very first call, and we make who make this synchronized. So we make the, uh. Synchronized call only around, um, the situation when a unique instance is not. So we basically duplicate this condition. We duplicate this condition. If unique instance is null, then we a doi synchronize a critical section around this code. Uh, that then double checks because, you know, maybe another thread might have reached, um. And we might have waited. And then, uh, another thread has written this before. Uh, so we have to check this again. Uh, and now we ensure that we have synchronize only in the case in which we have not created the object yet. So we have introduced locking only on the first, uh, right of the variable. And we've made it, uh, a volatile. Okay. Um. So we check for an incident as an instance. Then we enter the synchronized block. We check, uh, we still check if it's null, because we might still be in the race condition. Um, and we only synchronized for the first time. Uh, for all other reads, we are non synchronized anymore. So this. Yes. I don't think, um. You can set it to final if it's, um. I think the Java compiler will allow you to set a member variable to be final if you are not actually instantiating it up here. I don't think the compiler will allow that. That's right. Yes. Okay. Yeah. So volatile basically allows you to have a field modifier that is, uh, that is synchronized. Um, and with this way you can create your own, um, uh, thread safe singleton. So if you do need the singleton, this is the way how you would do it. Uh, and then you were implemented in, you know, whatever the programing language constructs you would have for you, um, for your other, um, programing languages if you don't use Java. Um, so you see that even such a single design, simple design pattern as the singleton has so many different implementations that come with a lot of different trade offs. Right. And you have to pick the kind of implementation that fits all of the quality attribute requirements that you have for your system. And that's not necessarily a one size fits all implementation. Um, we call this context tailoring. So this is what I talked about, um, in the previous lecture. But yeah, I would recommend you to be very, very careful with the singleton. Um, it's probably the most one of the most used design patterns, but I think it's also the most overused, uh, design patterns because it is very slippery slope. If you use the, uh, get instance call in many, many different places in your code, uh, you basically create. Yeah, you get all of the downsides of a global variable, right? You basically have created a global variable just behind a Get instance call. Okay. Questions about the singleton. Yes. The trade off for the third implementation is that you have a lot of code. Um, so this does indeed solve all of the threat safety problems. Um, uh, it just is a somewhat complex implementation. So, um. Yeah. If you really need a singleton, you would you would in most cases would use this implementation. Yeah. I don't I mean I guess the yeah. Yeah. You have more code to maintain. I would say that's probably the only downside that that I could see in this. I don't think there's a functional difference between. Yes. I'm not sure what. It's not was like. I maybe I misheard. Yeah. Um, but yeah, we want we wanted to, um. Oh, I think I was talking about final. What's this? What do you mean? Oh, yeah. Yeah. So final is a keyword in, uh, in Java, and I think also in C plus. Plus that only allows a single assignment, but because it's a statically checked property, not a dynamically checked property, the compiler will have to be 100% sure that there's only one assignment to this variable. And if it's a member variable and it's set in some function calls, the compiler cannot automatically guarantee that this is the case. Yeah. So okay, that that was the nuance here. Um. Other questions about the single. Yes. Oh, so you're saying maybe there might be a race condition of changing the variables inside of the I. That that could still happen. Then you still have to. Then you still have to potentially make them, you know, somehow threat thread safe as well. Um. Yeah. But, um, so this is kind of independent of whatever the semantics of the application is. You want to make sure that you only get a single instance. That's the whole point of the singleton. So this is, uh, this is ensuring the safety of the creation of the object, which is the most important, uh, threat safety property. Um, if you have other thread safety properties of your attributes, then you would you would handle them, um, you know, on a case by case basis. But let's move on to the adaptive design pattern. So the adapter design pattern I think is a very amazing design pattern. It basically solves the problem that you have one component, uh, that wants to use one interface. And then suddenly you have to connect it to another, uh, interface. Let's say you, uh, travel to Europe. Uh, in this case, you would travel to the UK. Um, this is not the Central European. This is just the, um, British European, uh, wall outlet. Uh, this looks different. Your laptop does not fit into the, uh, outlet, uh, in the UK. Um, so what do you do? Well, you have a an AC power adapter that translates one interface to another interface and software. You encountered the exact same situation. Uh, many, many times. So you have, uh, your own existing system, and then you want to connect your system to some external vendor that uses a different interface. You don't want to rewrite your entire system because your interface makes sense for your system. You want ask your vendor to re-implement the entire system. That would be, um, a lot of implementation effort on their end, because they still have other users that need to support these interfaces. So the problem that you have with the adapter is that you have two interfaces that, um, are separate by design. You don't. You don't have the ability or you don't want to unify them to be exactly the same. And then the adapter is kind of like a component you put in between, uh, that then translates one interface into another interface. That's what the adapter does. Uh, for example, you have some legacy code. They should still be supported, but then you come up with a new version of your interface that should, um, have a different, uh, interface. And the traditional way to implement it is that you have a client that wants to use an interface, and you just create an adapter class that is inheriting from this interface, and then delegates to an adapter that is using the other interface. So you basically, uh, inherit from one interface and then, uh, translate all of the requests that come into this interface, into a request to, uh, an adapter that exists somewhere else in the system. And then you basically just translate from one to the other. That's the only component that knows about the mapping between, uh, this interface and the interface of the adapter is this adapter. So this adapter then has code that is mapping one interface to another. Uh, for example, you have a turkey interface that can walk and fly, um, and. You have a mallard duck? That is a, uh, that implements a duck that can quack and fly, um, with its own implementation. But then you also have a turkey interface that can gobble and fly. Can't walk and fly can gobble and fly. Different interface. So kind of the same thing. Uh, so now we can create a wild turkey adapter. So this is our adapter, uh, that is implemented. So while Turkey is implementing Turkey, uh, and that has an implementation of Gobble and Fly. And now we create our adapter, um, uh, a turkey adapter that implements duck. So the turkey adapter owns a turkey, but it pretends to be a duck. Um, so whenever it's a quack, it, uh, calls gobble on its turkey object. And whenever it should fly, it might. Maybe so the turkey can fly much further than a duck. So it basically the semantics on fly on the turkey is that it's five times as far as a normal duck could fly or the other way around. Know that the duck can fly further than the turkey in this case. Um. So you want to call fly five times. So you have two types of adaptation that are going on here. You have an adaptation of syntax where you just say, we have a different name for the interface here and here, and we just directly translate from one to the other. And here we have a translation of only semantics. They have the same name but they have different meaning. It's very important when you have different interfaces. They have the same name but not necessarily always the same meaning. So fly for Turkey might be different from fly for duck. And then your adapter has to do both things. It has to adapt the syntax so that you can actually call but also has to adapt the semantics. In this example this adapter is doing exactly one for this and exactly one for that. And indentation is somehow not correct here. We update the indentation. Um. But yeah, it could also do, you know, both at the same time. It could also do both at the same time. So this is adapting semantics. This is adapting syntax. It difference is clear right. So any questions. Okay. Good. Um. Cool. The adapter converts the interface of one class into an interface. The client expects the adapter. Lets classes work together that could otherwise because of an incompatible interfaces. So let's look at our, uh, code implementation of the um adapter. Um. The adapter. Uh, so this is a general implementation of the adapter. So we have a, uh, public class client, uh, that has a main object, a main class that creates the adapter and the uh, uh, target adapter. And that is then, you know, we treat it as the, as an object that is just of the interface that we wanted to, uh, adapt to. So this is, again, information hiding happening. We don't want anybody to know that this adapter is actually an adapter. We just say this is the target interface. Anywhere in the code, we just treat it as the target. Um, and then we do our, uh, we make our calls on, um, on our adapter as if it would be a target. So target just has the, uh, ideal interface that we want, and we call this on our adapter, um, pretending that it's just an instance of our target interface. A hiding the fact there's an adapter in between. And then our adept, uh, uh, s um, yeah. Uh, in the constructor taking the adapter that it should adapt to. We definitely need this one. And then we do some, uh, translation from our, uh, non-ideal interface to our IDL interface. That can also you know potentially be like non 1 to 1 translation. So here we have one method translated into exactly one other method. And in practice you might have more complex examples where they're not where they don't necessarily translate 1 to 1. Then uh, it becomes a little bit more complex. Um. But we can also have a different implementation of the adapter. Oh that's a. Not this one. Okay. Uh, a think passage on this example. Huh? No. This makes no sense. There's no code here. Um. Oh. Oh, sorry. Uh, the question was. I guess now this is just trivial. I mean, it's just as in the name. Okay. Nothing special here. Um. Oops. Uh, this is the one. This is the one. This is the one. Okay. Identify the roles of who is the adapter and who is the adept. From this code. Talk to enable. Okay. Hope this is easy. Who wants to own some candy? And for someone from the back. Easy questions. No. Anybody brave enough? You know. What are the roles in the adapter? Okay. So this is important. We have design in design patterns. Design patterns describe abstract roles that are then mapped to concrete classes. So whenever you learn a design pattern you want to make sure that you remember all of the abstract rules. What are the abstract roles in a, uh, in a, uh, uh, in an adaptive design pattern? Yes. Yes. Okay. And do you know how how to meet them here? Um, we were saying that we think the iterator is the target. Um, iterator? Is that that. Um. Or. Adapter. Yes. Yeah. And then the numeration is not. That's right. Exactly. Yes. Yes that's right. So iterator is our, uh, you know, ideal interface. And then um, and then an adapter is the adapter class. Um and iterator. Yeah. Target interface. This is the at a T interface. And then our enumeration iterator is implementing this interface. And um let's just make this a fade okay. Cool. Nice. Okay. Um. The variation. A variation of the adapter, uh, is using what we call the class adapter. So this we've seen the, um, we've seen the um, object adapter that uses delegation where the adapter is just, um, realizing the target interface, uh, in languages like C plus. Plus, we also have the class adapter, uh, where we use multiple inheritance, where this adapter is then inheriting from target and also from adept. Um, I believe this is, uh, a more dangerous design because whenever you use multiple inheritance, uh, you often have a little bit of confusion, but you don't usually run into the diamond problem here. We remember the diamond problem of multiple inheritance. Yes, like one of two classes, of course. And then we have another cover from both of them. And then the other class would appear twice. You want that? That's right. And when you like a calling method, you don't really know which one you're calling. Um, so you usually don't run into the diamond problem, uh, with this. So this is maybe the less dangerous example of multiple inheritance, but you still want to you still want to avoid it. Uh, you still want to avoid it. Okay, let's take, uh, a break. Application, of course. Mr. Uh, they don't usually run to the line, and that's the kind of guarantee. But if they if they would have the same super class, then they would probably share similar. Um, and uh, and then um, and it would be very unlikely for them to have a very different kind of interfaces. Instead of the adapter solving the problem, though, we have very different interfaces that we want to adapt. If they both inherit from the same class, that that makes it much less likely that, uh, they actually have very different interface. Exactly. Yeah. So you have a, um, a two and a different from each other, but they want to sell, uh, components. They use both of these interfaces 1 to 1 to talk to each other. Also. If you have a race condition on the use of the single. So the singleton also has some other methods, right? So once it has been created, the whole point of the singleton is that you if you set some some variables, uh, you call some method that they could then run and then you have multiple somehow set the same instance. You might have a race condition inside of an object from um, um, different right operations. These um. Um, probably not. Because that's not usually the case. So the the single thing is, is, um, is I mean, if you have a class like Earth or, uh, you have a car license record. Um, yeah, I see, you know, the design pattern is adding to the definition and, uh, method to this concept. Like I said, that the get instance method should be of. But it's not the only method in the car. So there they should be other methods. Otherwise. Um, so this this this class on itself, like the way how it's written is really, um, it's like we add these methods into, um, two main classes that have some inherent value and then how to set it up from the outside, manipulated by public, the car. So this is actually a really good plan to make this point. And that all of these design patterns add these additional benefits and attributes to already existing classes of code. Which is why. We have another designer class. That's also only in statistics. That's the only method that accepts this request. Try that again. Thanks, guys. You're there. All right. That was nice. Yeah. I don't know why I have to. I was able to create an object and then have two things inside of this case. Yeah, I guess you. No, you don't actually have to do this to operate outside the class. Only using teachers because it's private. We can only. Yeah. Yeah. I don't really like a public yet. That makes another instance of. But the fact that this, you know. Yeah. Yeah, that that that would not be allowed. So we only want to set it in the getting set up. Okay. But that's right. If we're trying to have access to everything, we'll still have to access. So inside the closet, um, we can just do this stuff. Yeah. Oh, it's like the closet. We can't access the private attributes all inside the closet. We use that instance to get the object, and then we call object dog as if we would on any other object. So we, instead of constructor, we use get in to find every place where we would create the object instead of the new object. We just say object dot, but then otherwise we treat it as any other object that would not have use a single. Thank you. Cool. Um, one, uh, additional point that I wanted to make is that all of these design patterns, uh, they add methods and attributes to already existing domain classes. So when we look at the singleton, it only has this like get instance method. It doesn't do anything right. Uh, so you want to think of these design patterns as super imposed roles that you add to your existing domain classes. So you have your Earth class, and then you add the get instance method and the static instance object that is private to your already existing class. So the class that you would have in your system would then add these methods to the already existing classes instead of just being, you know, the raw class as we see here. Um, somehow I do not actually find the, um. Other code example that we had on the, um. Um. On that adapter. Um, maybe if we have a lot of time at the end, we can, uh, look at this, but, uh, let's let's go move to the, um. It's called facade, right? Not facade. Facade. Okay, the glass quarter. I made this mistake, and the students got annoyed. Um, somehow I thought facade would be British and facade would be American, but I guess it's not. Okay. The facade design pattern. Uh, imagine you, uh, implementing your own home theater system that has a lot of different classes a projector, a DVD player, an amplifier. Do you know what a CD and DVD does? Have you do you remember these are like, these are like the ground disks that you used to like, put and like, okay, believe me, they have existed in the past. People watch movies not on Netflix, but on a, on a physical disc that they put in their, uh, in their devices. Um, yeah. I've also not had these for many years. So, uh, I can imagine that many of you also will not have used them, but in the past that that existed. Um, but if we now want to watch a movie and a system that has this digital home theater system, uh, the issue we run into it is that there are a lot of really, really complex behavior, uh, uh, sequences that have to happen. So we want to, uh, we have to turn on the popcorn pop up, and then we have to start the popcorn popping, and we have to dim the lights. We have to put the screen down. We have to turn the project on. We have to set the projector input to DVD, put the projector in widescreen mode, uh, turn the sound amplifier on, set the amplifier to DVD input, set the amplifier to surround sound so you have a really long sequence of calls that might have to happen. So any, um, you know, outside user of this home theater system should not actually care about all of these, uh, different operations that need to happen, the sequence in which they need to happen. Um, right. So you want to simplify this interface to an outside client that uses this, um, and you have even further complications, uh, when the movie finishes, you have to call all of this in reverse, right? So you have to, uh, remember, in which order you have to call this, um, and for, uh, just a slightly different task, listening to streamed audio. You still have the same kind of complexity is equally complex. You have a lot of different high level operations, like watching a movie. Listening to stream audio is a high level operations that people want to take that, uh, in this, the in the system would have a huge amount of complexity. And then we want to hide from our other systems. And when we upgrade our system, then we still have to learn all of these slightly different procedures. So what could we do about this? Well, how could we implement information hiding in a way that we have? Um. Maybe go back to our big class diagram. So let's look at this big class diagram. So we have a lot of different classes that exist that all have a lot of different operations that needs to be called in a specific sequence to watch a movie. What can we do? Any ideas? Talk to your neighbor. Let me. Give you the time off. He has a longer time. That's an interesting one. Most of the. Not together. Okay. I think you've probably done. Who has an idea? Any ideas? Yes. Call it the simpler method. Calls the rest. How do we do this? Like, how would the class diagram have to change? You put it like. It's like, oh, we'll put it in a hole. And then. And then what? Then you can just basically that's like it's own class. It's called like that. And we call this a facade. Uh, so we create a new class. They kind of act us, you know, the box. Um. That is the only point of input and output from the outside. Uh, so we create the home theater facade that has watch movie and movie, listen to CD inside, listen to radio and radio. These are high level operations. And then the facade knows exactly how to translate this into the concrete detail classes that exist here. So from the outside, we only use the facade. And we just call any of these high level methods and then translate this into our, um, more low level classes. So we want to create a simple interface for a family of complex subsystems. They have to be related. Otherwise having a facade doesn't really make much sense because then we've kind of grouped together things that change for different reasons. Right. The facade should only simplify a complex interface that is, uh, related where all of the individual elements are related. If you create a facade, that then somehow simplifies a lot of very unrelated interfaces. Then you have created, uh, a problem, um, um, of maintainability. What is the difference between an adapter and a facade? I got this question quite a bit in office hours last quarter. Based on what you've learned yet. What do you think is the difference between an adapter and a facade? We have two interfaces in both cases. Talk to a neighbor. Uh. Okay. What's the difference? Who has an idea. Yes. And the doctor is simply just. That's right. So in a in an adapter we have two different interfaces that both have value in their own right. We want to maintain both of the different interfaces. Um. Um, but we want them to communicate with each other. In the example of the facade. There is only one really useful high level interface. Uh, and we have a low level interface that's much more complex. We just want to hide the complexity. So we translate in the facade example. We translate a very complex, uh, interface into a simpler interface in the adapter. We take two interfaces usually have around the same complexity, uh, that are both still needed. So the adapter is something you introduce when you have been developing two subsystems individually. So you have started to create a legacy system. And now you want to have a newer version of the system. Or you have you need to to operate with another, uh, third party system that uses the different interface. Let's say, um, let's say you want to send a lot of requests to, uh, anthropic and to OpenAI. Let's say they have different interfaces. And you, you cannot come up with one, uh, system that uses both at the same time. So then you create an adapter that's kind of in between, uh, these two different interfaces. The facade is something they, uh, you come up with yourself at design time. So you are designing your system and you realize, oh, there are these concrete classes that all have their own interface, and we want to create a high level interface. So the facade is something you come up with for your own system. Adapter is something that you usually come up with for your system to integrate with, another system that you don't really have control over. So the context there is a little bit different. So we simplify an interface and we also decouple uh two different parts. So we decouple our client from the subcomponents. We hide the existence of our subcomponents from our client. The client doesn't even know that there's the CD player. The client just know that you can watch a movie and that there's like a CD implementation somewhere the client should know about. Um, they both have the, um, similarity that they wrap multiple classes. So the adapt does intend is to convert and the facades intend is to simplify. Uh, and that's just basically it gives you a simpler version of your already existing interface. Yes. Um. Everyday abstraction. So technically, the facade is an object oriented design pattern where you have multiple objects that have their own smaller interfaces, and then the facade is an object you talk to. Uh, of course, the idea of a facade also applies to, let's say, like a Rest interface, like you have a lot of operations and then you create a higher level interface and then maps to all of the other interfaces. We don't usually consider that a facade design pattern. Uh, but the ideas in these object oriented design patterns do translate to other, uh, design goals as well. We just don't usually call it a facade in that example. Okay, so the facade provides a unified interface to a set of smaller, more concrete interfaces in a subsystem and defines a higher level interface that makes the subsystem easier to use. Um, I think this is a great implementation of the information hiding principle. So whenever you have your, uh, um, uh, subsystems, you want to make sure that there's only a small interface that exposes different details. And the facade is helping you do this. Okay. Questions? Yes. Because I know it is going to be related. Huh? That's a great question. So design patterns. The purpose of design patterns is helping you figure out a solution to a problem. Uh, if you figure out the solution without calling it a facade, um, because you've, uh, internalized the design experience in the facade design pattern, uh, and you've come up with a design that just simplifies to, say, two classes into one, uh, or three classes into one. The question whether we call it a facade design pattern is an, uh, that's more of an academic question in practice, um, whether you call it a facade or not. Um, um. Yeah, it's not that important. If you have a really big subsystem with a lot of classes, it might make sense to create an object that you call, you know, the, um, via the facade and name it like this so that everybody knows this is the object you should use. Um, calling it a facade basically tells everybody you should use this instead of the other classes in the package. Um, but if it's just like a few classes, um, you might not necessarily feel the need to add a facade at the end of the, um, uh, of the class name. Um, and then the question doesn't really then it's more of like academic than a practical question. That's right. Oh, that's that's the more interesting question. How many layers of abstraction? So there's this quote. Uh, every single problem in computer science can be solved by adding another layer of indirection. Except for the problem that you have too many layers of indirection. Um, so you want to think about, um, levels of abstraction that provide meaningful utility on their own, um, while reducing complexity. Uh, whenever you feel like that is, uh, adding a layer of abstraction between two layers that then still provides value on its own, I would I would probably do it. Um, but, um, the trade off between exposing customizable options, um, and providing a simpler interface that's very context dependent. So you will often run into a situation where you would love to create this facade, but then you abstract away a lot of configuration options that other, uh, components might actually really appreciate. Uh, and then you have you've hidden too much of the customization options. You've not given the user the option to, uh, maybe, um. Insert the CD before all of the, you know, some some people might maybe want to listen to the music instantly after they enter the room while all of the screen going up and down, projector warming up. Right? Some people might want to listen to the music before this is happening, and some other, uh, people might prefer to remain in quietness before, um, the movie actually starts. So there you have some variation in the sequence in which these operations should happen, where maybe introducing a facade is then making the top component less useful. Uh, this is this is why requirements engineering are so important when you want to think about what are the actual needs of your clients, what a potential future changes might we want to have a customer in the future? They want to call these in different orders. And then, uh, you want to think about your interface, uh, after you've come up with all of the current requirements and potential future requirements. Um, and they then decide what kind of interface you're picking, whether you want to still provide access to the lower level interface, even though you have the facade, or whether you want to prevent any access to the lower level classes because, uh, you just don't anticipate any feature that needs this, and then you just want to increase the information hiding and encapsulation. Um, so is a problem. That's, that's that's solved more by requirements engineering than by than by design or by making sure you do requirements engineering before you to design. Um, this answer question. These are great questions. I love the questions in this class. Other questions. Then let's go to the command design pattern. So let's say we have a remote control that we use to control all of our, um, devices. At home. We have a lot of different lights. We have window shades that go up and down and we just don't want to move. We want to sit on the couch on our bed and, uh, we want to use our remote to control everything in our home. Um, uh, and we want to have programable buttons, because maybe at some point we would like to introduce new devices in our home, maybe a new kind of lamp, maybe add a new kind of sound device. So we want to have programable buttons where we can program what each of these, uh, these buttons is doing. Um, and in our smart home, we have, um, appliance control. We have a stereo with a TV, ceiling, lights, outdoor lights. We have a lot of different devices that can be controlled, that can be activated and deactivated. But the issue is that they all have different interfaces. So the Falster controller has open valve and, uh, and closed valve. The TV has on and off, right. They don't map each other so they don't have the same interface. So all of the different devices in our system, they all have different interfaces. Um, so we want a design that allows us to, you know, program these buttons in a way. They can then activate and deactivate all of the different devices. They use different interfaces. Any ideas, any ideas how we could do this? Come up with some nice design that. Allows us to activate and deactivate a lot of different devices and then add those. Uh, two programable. Yes. Hmhm. That's a good idea. We can have an adapter that has, like, on and off. Um, and then maps this to all of the different objects that kind of owns the, uh, other objects. And then we have a mediator in between that is, uh, controlling them. Uh. The command is basically like that. It's basically like that. Okay. So the the problem we have here is that the remote is very simple, but the devices have a lot of variation. Um, and um, they all have different method names. Um, and we want to have some information hiding where our remote control doesn't even know what kinds of devices are there. Right? We don't want a dependency from our remote control to all of the different devices, because whenever we add a new device, we don't want to change the class of the remote control. The remote control should not have to be recompiled and reshaped. Yeah, we maybe could have like a big switch statement where we're like, if we have programed this and we have that. That's not nice. Switch statements. You always want to avoid switch statements. Switch statements are the the enemy of change ability. They are a violation of the single choice principle. You have all of the examples listed. Every single place in the code don't have switch statements in your code if you can avoid it. So we want to really decouple the actions from the one performing the action. Uh, the motivation for the command design pattern is that we want to have multiple varying objects. Um, that all should have the same kind of interface, but could have different, uh, can perform many different actions on these objects. And then we want a common interface to request commands to be invoked on varying objects. So the command kind of looks like this. Uh, we have a client that is then, uh, calling execute on a command interface. And we have, uh, a command invoker that, uh, receives a set of these command objects. Uh, so we have a set command class on an invoker that just takes some kind of command object. They all just have, uh, like, execute method. Um, and that one is just calling execute on your command, and then your command is somehow, uh, uh, translating this to, uh, our receiver classes that have their own unique interfaces. So the roles we have in the command is that we have a client that is calling the invoker. We have a command that is just an interface that just says execute. And it has multiple different implementations. Um, and we have an invoker that can um, receive a command, uh, and we have a receiver that, uh, has multiple receivers that have the same kind of action. Do I have a. Class diagram. This somewhere here. Think it's easier to see when you look at this class diagram. So our command is an interface. Let's for example execute an undo. And then we have a lot of concrete command classes. And then realize this interface by then mapping it to some receiver. So this is kind of why it feels like a adapter. Right. Um, this is what, uh, a student was saying. We have an adapter that is translating this receiver interface to the command interface. Uh, and then we have an invoker that just blindly calls execute an undo whatever interface our command should have. It doesn't know anything about the receivers. It doesn't know anything about the concrete classes. It just is programed purely against this abstract interface. This is the command design pattern. And. The way, how it's implemented. It's like this. So we have our command interface that just says execute. Um, and then we have a light on command. So this is the command that should turn on the lights that implements the command pattern. By uh here we have our receiver. We have the lights the lights object. Um, that will be set whenever we create this command. And then whenever we execute it, we call, uh, lights dot on. Uh, so when we create the command, we, we pass it the lights that it should control, and then it just executes to turn on the light. And then we have a simple remote control that, um, has a command slot, and then we can put any kind of command object in there that could turn on the lights or turn off the lights. It can turn on the sound can turn off the sound. Uh, we have some setup where we define the slot. And whenever we push this button, we just call execute on our command slot. So this looks very much like a strategy, right? We, uh, have our with different implementations of what should happen when we push this button. We, uh, somehow set this strategy. Um, and then we call execute on it whenever we want. So you can think of the command kind of like a, like a more complex strategy, a more complex strategy that has, um, more variation and, um, um. Uh, and objects that it somehow ends up translating to. Um, and then our. Simple remote or main function is just creating the simple remote control and then creates some lights. It creates our light on command with the lights, and then is setting the command on our remote. And whenever we push the button. Now what is happening is that button was pressed, is uh, then invoking the uh command or executed in our light on command. And this is then calling on, on our light object that we've created. So we have now hidden all of this complex sequence of calls, uh, in a very simple interface, where at some point in the code we, uh, create our command data structure. And then another point in the code, we just blindly execute it. So, um, the whole purpose of the command is to separate the creation of an object structure from the execution of, um, operations on this, uh, object structure. So at some point we, we define which, uh, command should happen at another point in the code. We can then execute it. But what is the difference between a command and a mediator? What's the difference between a command and a mediator? Talk to enable. Okay. What's the difference? In both cases we have like a lot of different objects. Like we have our lights, we have our TV, we have our sound, they have on and off different interfaces. But it looks very, very similar from a from a class diagram of an object diagram. What's the difference? Yeah. I might actually say it might be the opposite. Um, so in a mediator, you have some like the mediator knows about, you know, the, the, the order in which things are called in a, in a common design pattern. You don't usually have like a central object that knows all of the combinations, um, of, uh, events that might happen. Um, you have an idea? The mediator is multidirectional. I'm hearing lots of. Um, information transfer between classes, but there's no life set to flow between different classes. It's kind of just there to be a hub between them. Mhm. Like. You know, the information is always going. It's beautiful. I think that's the key, right? So you you create this object structure somewhere in the client, and you create a lot of, uh, dynamic. Um. Configuration abilities. Right? So your mediator is encapsulating all of the logic in one place. Uh, and, um, this would have to change during kind of coding time. If your interactions would change, you would change this inside of your your mediator. Your command design pattern allows you to have a lot of different structures, uh, of uh, commands. They can, can communicate with each other in, in some kind of sequential way. So I think you have more flexibility and more runtime flexibility in the command. And the mediator is a is a purely static pattern where after you have compiled the code, nothing is changing. And the uh, command design pattern, you can actually allow users to, uh, pick uh, which button um, uh, maps to which command object. Right. We can select the command at runtime. That is then, uh, used whenever you push the button while in a, in a mediator. This wouldn't really be the case. So the mediator is an intermediate object, uh, between multiple colleagues that need to interact with each other, uh, in the command. You don't usually have a lot of interactions between the objects. Um, the command is just an interface for an action that in Cup encapsulates some, let's say, underlying device or whatever other action might have to happen. Um, and, um, the devices can have different kind of sets of names and actions that can then be, um, uh, abstracted by, um, having just a single interface for your command from the client perspective. Um. Yeah. So this is. Um, the client code that basically the same we've seen before, right? Okay. It's just a different configuration of, uh, of the same simple remote, but create a faster control. We now create a faster control command. We set our command to use this, uh, faster control off, and then, um, we we press the button. And then in our, uh, foster control, we, you know, basically do the same thing. We take a foster object that we want to kind of adapt to. And then in our execute function, we just call, uh, call out. So the design pattern looks a little bit more complicated. So we have our command interface with a lot of concrete command classes that there are a lot of those. Um, and then there are receivers that, uh are stored inside the command. And then whenever the command does like execute or undo, uh, then it calls some, uh, function on your, uh, receiver, and then the client is instantiating them. So the client is creating the receiver object, and then it's configuring, um, the invoke, uh, and uh, is setting up the command. So that's one place in the code that is configuring this. And this could, uh, happen sequentially. So there could be some place in the code where you, uh, set some of the commands and then some other place to set some other. Yes, training. That's right. Yeah. So I guess the head first pattern book, uh, somehow didn't draw the connection between the client and the invoker there. It's right that we we do have a dependency between, um, the client and the invoker. Uh, at some point, somebody has to call said command, right? Somebody has to do this. It's usually the client that is doing this. That's right. Yes. Good observation. And that questions about the command. Okay. And yeah, we often use this also to implement some kind of undo operation. Uh, that's a more complex design pattern called the memento that is specifically designed for basically just undo. Um, but yeah, the command encapsulates a request of an object and let let's the client or, you know, some other place in the code customize, uh, which objects should be called, uh, in which, in which sequence? Uh, you could also, you often see commands be used in lists. Right. So if you have a list data structure, uh, that then defines a sequence of commands that should run. This is also very, very common. Instead of just having a single command and that you are executing, you take a list of commands that are then instantiated by your, uh, client, and then you set your sequence of commands that will then be run, then loaded from some configuration file. For example, you see these, uh, instances of the command quite often. Okay? Yes. That most of. I would not say that this is similar. So the facade is a is a static pattern. So the facade is helping you reduce dependencies. Um, in your code. Um, the command is trying to give you flexibility at runtime. So the command is a behavioral pattern while the facade is a static pattern. So the the problem that the facade is addressing is just to reduce the dependencies in your code. The um, command is uh, mostly to give you more flexibility in, uh, designing the, um, uh, runtime flexibility of your system. You want to you want to allow the user to customize, um, what should happen when a certain button is pressed or when a, uh, uh, like a soft button is pressed, or when, um, uh, in frameworks, you also see this quite a lot. You have, let's say, a before action, uh, that you want to, uh, have that should happen. And then the framework does something you have uh, after, uh, the framework is done, you can define your own function, uh, in many dynamic programing languages, this is basically just, um, closures. Uh, then the command is this implementation of the command in dynamically type programing languages doesn't usually actually have a, uh, concrete command class. In many cases this is just a pure closure. That is just saying this is a, uh, you know, anonymous callback or closure that is, that is then being executed. Um, so in many cases, you don't actually have the concrete object being a class, A concrete command being a class. Um, uh, and then it just allows you to have more, more flexibility. In that sense, I would say it's different from the from the facade. Um. Because the facade, I guess the examples are somewhat similar, but the the design patterns are very, very different, are very, very different in the sense that the facade is giving you more reduction of dependencies in your code, in the in the command. It's giving you more flexibility at one time. Uh great question. Any other questions? Okay, then I think I have a few questions for you. How does the remote know the difference between the kitchen light and the living room light? Your lights, right? No idea. Nobody. Oh, you have an idea? Yes. Under concrete command rather than just. Exactly. Talk to. That's. At some point in your code, you create the kitchen light, and in some other part in the code, you create the, uh, living room light. And, uh, when you create your command data structure, you just have to make sure that you use the right instance so that just instances of the same class, but, uh, some code that has to know the actual difference, and then you have to make the decision which light you want to have turned on and off. Um, so, uh, in a real implementation, you might have some kind of like directory where you list all of the lights, and then the user is selecting the specific light instance, and they have let's say like kind of name, uh, a name attribute that is on display to the user. And the user picks the right one. Um. Okay. Hmm. You just. Your. That's right. But we have to make sure we store the right, uh, light object in our command when we when we set the command for our button. Uh, we want to be sure that we, uh, don't confuse the kitchen light with the living room light. Yeah, but that's like how. Exactly. Exactly. So at the place. At the place in the code where you set your command, you have to be sure that the right command is picked up. Okay. Question two. I guess. Yeah, this, this one we've already seen. How would you implement the history of I guess maybe. Okay. This that's a little bit more to this. That's a little bit more to this. How would you implement the history of undo operations. So we've already seen that you can have like an undo operation on your command. But what else do you need besides the undo? Um, besides the undo method on your interface? Anything else you might need? Yes, Nathan. That's right. It's a stack. Yes, it's a stack. That's right. It's a stack. Um, we we have a second. Whenever we execute a command, we push the command to our, uh, history stack. And then whenever we push undo, we call undo on our command. So we basically, uh, have a stack, uh, of commands. Okay. And now I have indeed. Um, found our. Merge design pattern. Example. Okay. Yeah. So here, um, we looked at the adapt the design pattern. So we have our, uh, duck test drive. We have our wild turkey, we have, uh, uh, a duck turkey adapter. Um, we. Yeah. We have an enumerator. Which design pattern was this? Who? Remember who? Who can identify the design pattern from the code? What can I design analysis look like? Uh, Elliott. Yes, that's an adaptive. Oops. Oh, sorry. Mhm. This is a good one. Okay. We have a legacy line. That has a draw function with an x1, y1, x2, y2. And now we, uh, have a new line, whereas the new line class. You have a new line class. That says a line from the old one was saying A line from x one, y one to x to y two. Um, and we have a new line. We have a new line that takes x1, y2, x2, y2. So we've swapped the. Stop the auto. A bit confused why this was the case. Okay, I'm a little bit confused. What the. Uh oh, the legacy rectangle was. Oh, okay, now I remember. Okay. In the legacy rectangle, we have, uh, a draw function that takes in, uh, x and y, basically a corner, and then it takes the width and height, uh, and then it is printing rectangle at x y with width and height. And then we create a, um, a new rectangle, a new rectangle that does not take a width and height that just takes two corners. Um, and it's not actually exposing its internal implementation. Uh, if we draw this. So here we have different ways to draw a rectangle. Right. We can draw it by giving it a corner and then giving it width and height. And um, then we um might define a rectangle instead by just giving it the corner coordinates for like both of the corners. Uh, and then we hide the decision that it's kind of, uh, implemented by, um, um. Internally storing the width and height rather than the, um, example. Okay. But we are out of time anyways. So, um. Let's. Complete your tickets.